---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 2.1 released"
description: "CGAL 2.1"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-download"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-2.1">Download CGAL 2.1</a>

<p>CGAL 2.1 differs from <a href="../../../../1999/06/01/cgal-20">CGAL 2.0</a> in the platforms
that are supported and in functionality:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### Supported platforms
  - The newest gnu compiler (2.95.2) on Sun, SGI, Linux and Windows.
  - The Microsoft Visual C++ compiler, version 6.
  - The mips CC compiler version 7.3 under Irix.
  - Support for the old g++ compiler (2.8) and for mips CC 7.2 has been dropped.

### General
  -  Added support for GeoWin visualization library. LEDA is required.
  -  Added support for the CLN number type together with CGAL.
  -  Min_quadrilateral optimisations have been added. These are algorithms to
     compute the minimum enclosing rectangle/parallelogram (arbitrary
     orientation) and the minimum enclosing strip of a convex point set.

### Alpha shapes and weighted alpha shapes in 2D.
  - Alpha shapes are a generalization of the convex hull of a point set.

###  Arrangements in 2D.
  - Arrangements are related to and based on planar maps.
    The major difference between the two is that curves are allowed to
    intersect in the case of arrangements.

### 2D Triangulations
  - Extensions to triangulations in 2D.  Constrained triangulations are now
    dynamic: they support insertions of new constraint as well as removal of
    existing constraints.  There are also constrained Delaunay triangulations.

### 3D Triangulations
  - Both Delaunay triangulations and regular triangulations have been added.

### 2D Point Set
  - A new package for 2d range search operations, Delaunay triangulation, nearest neighbor queries.
    This package requires LEDA to be installed.
</div>
