---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 2.2"
description: "CGAL 2.2 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p>Version 2.2 differs from version 2.1 in the platforms that are supported and
in functionality.</p>

<P>
Additional supported platforms:

<UL>
   <LI> the KAI compiler (4.0) on Solaris 5.8
   <LI> Borland C++ (5.5)
</UL>

<p>
The following functionality has been added:

<UL>
<LI> There is a new, non-reference-counted kernel, Simple_cartesian. Because
     reference counting is not used, and thus coordinates are stored within a
     class, debugging is easier using this kernel.  This kernel can also be
     faster in some cases than the reference-counted Cartesian kernel.

<LI> New optimisation algorithms
     <UL>
        <LI> Min_annulus_d - Algorithm for computing the smallest enclosing
             annulus of points in arbitrary dimension
        <LI> Polytope_distance_d - Algorithm for computing the (squared)
             distance between two convex polytopes in arbitrary dimension
        <LI> Width_3 - Algorithm for computing the (squared) width of points
             sets in three dimensions
     </UL>

<LI> 2D Triangulations
     <UL>
       <LI> There are now two triangulation data structures available in CGAL.
            The new one uses a list to store the faces and allows one to
            represent two-dimensional triangulations embedded in three spaces
            as well as planar triangulations.
       <LI> The triangulation hierarchy which allows fast location query
            is now available.
     </UL>

<LI> Inifinite objects can now be included in planar maps.

<LI> Removal as well as insertions of vertices for 3D Delaunay triangulations
     is now possible.

<LI> A generator for ``random'' simple polygons is now available.

<LI> In directory demo/Robustness, programs that demonstrate typical robustness
     problems in geometric computing are presented along with the solutions to
     these problems that CGAL provides.
</UL>

<P>
The following functionality has been removed:
<UL>
  <LI> The binary operations on polygons (union, intersection ...) have been
       removed.  Those operations were not documented in the previous release
       (2.1).  Arrangements can often be used as a substitute.
</UL>
