---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 2.3"
description: "CGAL 2.3 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p>Version 2.3 differs from version 2.2 in the platforms that are supported and
in functionality.</p>

<P>
Additional supported platform:

<UL>
   <LI> Gnu g++ 3.0 on Solaris and Linux
</UL>

<p>
The following functionality has been added:<BR><BR>

<H3>Kernels</H3>
<UL>
<LI> The 2D and 3D kernels now serve as models of the new kernel concept
     described in the recent paper, "An Adaptable and Extensible Geometry
     Kernel" by Susan Hert, Micheal Hoffmann, Lutz Kettner, Sylvain Pion,
     and Michael Seel to be presented at
     WAE 2001 (and
     soon available as a technical report).  This new kernel is
     completely compatible with the previous design but is more flexible
     in that it allows geometric predicates as well as objects to be easily
     exchanged and adapted individually to users' needs.

<LI> A new kernel called <TT>Simple_homogeneous</TT> is available. It is
     equivalent to <TT>Homogeneous</TT> but without reference-counted objects.

<LI> A new kernel called <TT>Filtered_kernel</TT> is available that allows
     one to build kernel traits classes that use exact and efficient predicates.

<LI> There are two classes, <TT>Cartesian_converter</TT> and
     <TT>Homogeneous_converter</TT>
     that allows one to convert objects between different Cartesian and
     homogeneous kernels, respectively.

<LI> A new d-dimensional kernel, <TT>Kernel_d</TT> is available.  It provides
     diverse kernel objects, predicates and constructions in d dimensions with
     two representations based on the kernel families <TT>Cartesean_d</TT> and
     <TT>Homogeneous_d</TT>
</UL>

<H3>Basic Library</H3>
   Almost all packages in the basic library have been adapted to the
   new kernel design to realize the flexibility this design makes possible.
   In several packages, this means that the traits class requirements have
   changed to conform to the function objects offered in the kernels so the
   kernels themselves can be used as traits classes in many instances.

<UL>
<LI>
    2D Convex Hull<BR>
    The traits requirements have changed slightly to bring them in line with
    the CGAL kernels.

<LI>
    3D Convex Hull
<UL>
  <LI> The function <TT>convex_hull_3</TT> now uses a new implementation of the
       quickhull algorithm and no longer requires LEDA.
  <LI> A new <TT>convex_hull_incremental_3</TT> function based on the new
       d-dimensional convex hull class is available for comparison purposes.
</UL><BR>

<LI>
     <TT>Convex_hull_d, Delaunay_d</TT><BR>
     Two new application classes offering the calculation of d-dimensional
     convex hulls and delaunay triangulations<BR><BR>

<LI>
     Polygons and Polygon Operations<BR>
     <UL>
       <LI> The traits class requirements have been changed.
       <LI> The simplicity test has a completely new implementation.
       <LI> Properties like convexity, simplicity and area can now be cached by
            polygons. You need to set a flag to select this behaviour.
     </UL>
     <BR>

     <BR><BR>
<LI>
     Planar Nef Polyhedra<BR>
     A new class (<TT>Nef_polyhedron_2</TT>) representing planar Nef polyhedra =
     rectilinearly bounded points sets that are the result of binary and
     topological operations starting from halfplanes.

     <BR><BR>
<LI> A new package offering functions to

     partition planar polygons into
     convex and y-monotone pieces is available.

     <BR><BR>
<LI>
     Planar Maps and

     Arrangements
     <UL>
     <LI> A new class <TT>Planar_map_with_intersections_2&lt;Planar_map&gt;</TT> for
          planar maps of possibly intersecting, possibly non-x-monotone,
          possibly overlapping curves (like <TT>Arrangement_2</TT> but without
          the hierarchy tree).

     <LI> I/O utilities for planar maps and arrangements for textual and
          graphical streams. (It is possible to save and later reload built
          planar maps or arrangements.)

     <LI> New arrangement traits class for line segments and circular arcs
          (<TT>Arr_segment_circle_traits&lt;NT&gt;</TT>).

     <LI> New faster traits for polylines specialized for using the LEDA
          rational kernel (<TT>Arr_leda_polylines_traits</TT>). The LEDA
          traits for segments was also made faster.

     <LI> A new point location strategy
          (<TT>Pm_simple_point_location&lt;Planar_map&gt;</TT>).
     </UL>
     <BR><BR>

<LI>
     Halfedge Data Structure<BR><BR>

     The halfedge data structure has been completely revised. The new design
     is more in line with the STL naming scheme and it provides a safe and
     coherent type system throughout the whole design (no void* pointers
     anymore), which allows for better extendibility. A user can add new
     incidences in the mesh easily. The new design also uses standard
     allocators with a new template parameter that has a suitable default.
     <BR><BR>

     The old design is still available, but its use is deprecated, see the
     manual of
     deprecated packages for its documentation. Reported bugs in
     copying the halfedge data structure (and therefore also polyhedral
     surfaces) have been fixed in both designs. Copying a list-based
     representation is now based on hash maps instead of std::map and is
     therefore considerably faster.

     <BR><BR>
<LI>
      Polyhedral Surface

     <BR><BR>
     The polyhedral surface has been rewritten to work with the new
     halfedge data structure design. The user level interface of the
     <TT>CGAL::Polyhedron_3</TT> class is almost backwards compatible with the
     previous class. The exceptions are the template parameter list,
     everything that relies on the flexibility of the underlying
     halfedge data structure, such as a self-written facet class, and
     that the distinction between supported normals and supported planes
     has been removed. Only planes are supported. See the manuals for
     suggestions how to handle normals instead of planes.

     <BR><BR>
     More example programs are provided with polyhedral surfaces,
     for example, one about Euler operator and one computing a subdivision
     surface given a control mesh as input.

     <BR><BR>
     The old design is still available for backwards compatibility and to
     support older compiler, such as MSVC++6.0. For the polyhedral surface,
     old and new design cannot be used simultaneously (they have identical
     include file names and class names). The include files select
     automatically the old design for MSVC++6.0 and the new design
     otherwise. This automatism can be overwritten by defining appropriate
     macros before the include files. The old design is selected with the
     <TT>CGAL_USE_POLYHEDRON_DESIGN_ONE</TT> macro. The new design is selected
     with the <TT>CGAL_USE_POLYHEDRON_DESIGN_TWO</TT> macro.

     <BR><BR>
<LI>
     2D Triangulation
     <UL>
     <LI> The geometric traits class requirements have been changed to conform
          to the new CGAL kernels.  CGAL kernel classes can be used as traits
          classes for all 2D triangulations except for regular triangulations.

     <LI> Additionnal functionality:
     <UL>
     <LI> dual method for regular triangulations (to build a power diagram)
     <LI> unified names and signatures for various "find_conflicts()"
          member functions in Delaunay and constrained Delaunay triangulation.
     <LI> As an alternative to the simple insert() member function,
          insertion of points in those triangulation can be performed using the
          combination of find_conflicts() and star_hole() which eventually
          allows the user to keep track of deleted faces.
     </UL>

     <LI> More demos and examples
     </UL>

     <BR>
<LI>
      3D Triangulation
     <UL>
     <LI> Major improvements
          <UL>
            <LI> A new class <TT>Triangulation_hierarchy_3</TT> that allows a
                 faster point location, and thus construction of the Delaunay
                 triangulation
            <LI> A new method for removing a vertex from a Delaunay
                 triangulation that solves all degenerate cases
            <LI> Running time of the usual location and insertion methods
                 improved
         </UL>

     <LI> A bit more functionality, such as
          <UL>
          <LI> New geomview output
          <LI> dual methods in Delaunay triangulations to draw the Voronoi
               diagram
          </UL>
     <LI> More demos and examples

     <LI> Changes in interface
          <UL>
          <LI> Traits classes requirements have been modified
          <LI> The kernel can be used directly as a traits class (except for
               regular triangulation)
          <LI> insert methods in <TT>Triangulation_data_structure</TT> have a
               new interface
          </UL>
     </UL>
     <BR>
<LI> A new class (<TT>Alpha_shapes_3</TT>) that computes Alpha shapes of point
     sets in 3D is available.

     <BR><BR>
<LI> The traits requirements for matrix search and
     minimum quadrilaterals have been changed to bring them
     in line with the CGAL kernels.
     <BR><BR>

<LI> Point_set_2
    <UL>
    <LI>  now independent of LEDA; based on the CGAL Delaunay triangulation
    <LI>  traits class requirements adapted to new kernel concept.
    <LI>  function template versions of the provided query operations are
          available
    </UL>
</UL>

<H3>Support Library</H3>
<UL>
<LI>  Number types:
      <UL>
       <LI> <TT>Lazy_exact_nt&lt;NT&gt;</TT> is a new number type wrapper to speed
            up exact number types.
       <LI> <TT>MP_Float</TT> is a new multiprecision floating point number
            type. It can do exact additions, subtractions and multiplications
            over floating point values.
      </UL>

<LI>  <TT>In_place_list</TT> has a new third template parameter
      (with a suitable default) for an STL-compliant allocator.

<LI>
      <TT>Unique_hash_map</TT> is a new support class.

<LI>
      <TT>Union_find</TT> is a new support class.

<LI>
     <TT>Geomview_stream</TT> :
    <UL>
    <LI> Geomview version 1.8.1 is now required.
    <LI> no need to have a <TT>~/.geomview</TT> file anymore.
    <LI> new output operators for triangulations.
    <LI> new output operators for <TT>Ray_2</TT>, <TT>Line_2</TT>,
         <TT>Ray_3</TT>, <TT>Line_3</TT>, <TT>Sphere_3</TT>.
    <LI> various new manipulators.
    </UL>

<LI> Window stream
    In cooperation with Algorithmic Solutions, GmBH (distributors of
    the LEDA library), we can now offer a visualization package
    downloadable in binary form that supports visualization on a ported
    version of the LEDA window lib.
</UL>
