---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 2.4"
description: "CGAL 2.4 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p>Version 2.4 differs from version 2.3 in the platforms that are supported and
in functionality.  There have also been a number of bug fixes for this release.</p>

<p>
Additional supported platforms:
<UL>
   <LI> Microsoft Visual C++, version 7. </li>
   <LI> SunPro 5.3 (with patch 111685-05) on Solaris </li>
   <LI> g++ 3.1 on Linux and Solaris </li>
</UL>

<p>
The following functionality has been added or changed:<BR><BR>

<H3>Kernels</H3>

<UL>
   <LI> Point_d has been removed from the 2D and 3D kernels.  This type is
        now available from the d-dimensional kernel only. </li>
</UL>

<H3>Basic Library</H3>

<UL>

  <LI> 2D Polygon Partitioning<BR>

      Traits requirements for optimal partitioning have been changed slightly.
     <BR><BR>
 </li>
 
  <LI> 2D Sweep line<BR>

      A new package that implements a sweep-line algorithm to compute
      arrangements of curves for different families of curves, which are
      not necessarily line segments  (e.g., it also works for circular arcs).
      The resulting output can be the list of vertex points, the resulting
      subcurves or a planar map.
      <BR><BR>
 </li>
 
  <LI>
       Planar Maps and

       Arrangements

  <UL>
  <LI> New quicker insertion functions of Planar_map_2 for cases where more
      precomputed information is available regarding the position of
      the inserted curve in the map. </li>

  <LI> New query function for planar maps that determines whether a given
      point is within a given face of the planar map. </li>

  <LI> New iterator over edges of planar maps in addition to the existing
      iterator over halfedges. </li>

  <LI>  New copy constructor and assignment operator for arrangements. </li>
  </UL>
 </li>
  <BR><BR>


  <LI>
       Polyhedral Surface
  <UL>
  <LI>  new design introduced with release 2.3 now supported by VC7 compiler </li>

  <LI>  Extended functionality of Polyhedron_incremental_builder:
        absolute indexing allows one to add new surfaces to existing ones. </li>
  </UL>
 </li>
  <BR><BR>


  <LI> 2D Triangulation
  <UL>
  <LI> There is a new triangulation data structure replacing the two
       previous ones. This new data structure is coherent with the 3d
       triangulation data structure and offer the advantages of both
       previous ones. Backward compatibility is ensured and this change
       is transparent for the user of triangulation classes. </li>
  <LI> Constrained and Delaunay constrained triangulations are now able
       to handle intersecting input constraints.
       The behavior of constrained triangulations with repect to
       intersection of input constraints can be customized using
       an intersection tag. </li>
  <LI> A new class Constrained_triangulation_plus offers a constrained
       hierarchy on top of a constrained triangulations. This additionnal
       data structure describes the subdivision of the original constraints
       into edges of the triangulations. </li>
  </UL> </li>
  <BR><BR>


  <LI> 3D Triangulation
   <UL>
   <LI> Running time improved by a better and more compact management of
        memory allocation </li>

   <LI> Various improvements and small functionalities added:
     <UL>
     <LI> Triangulation_3&lt;GT,Tds&gt;::triangle() returns a triangle oriented
          towards the outside of the cell c for facet (c,i) </li>
     <LI> New function insert(Point, Locate_type, Cell_handle, int, int)
          which avoids the location step. </li>
     <LI> New function to get access to cells in conflict in a Delaunay
          insertion : find_conflicts() and insert_in_hole() </li>
     <LI> New function TDS::delete_cells(begin, end). </li>
     <LI> New functions : degree(v), reorient(), remove_decrease_dimension(),
          remove_from_simplex(). </li>
     </UL>
 </li>
   <LI> Changes of interface:
     <UL>
     <LI> vertices and cells are the same for the triangulation data
          structure and the geometric triangulation </li>
     <LI> the triangulation data structure uses Vertex_handle (resp
          Cell_handle) instead of Vertex* (resp Cell*). </li>
     <LI> incident_cells() and incident_vertices() are templated by output
          iterators </li>
     <LI> changes in the iterators and circulators interface:
        <UL>
        <LI> Iterators and circulators are convertible to handles
             automatically, no need to call "->handle()" anymore. </li>
        <LI> Vertex_iterator split into All_vertices_iterator and
             Finite_vertices_iterator (and similar for cells...). </li>
        <LI> TDS::Edge/Facet iterators now support operator->. </li>
        </UL> </li>
     </UL>
     </li>
  </UL> </li>
  </li>
  <BR><BR>
  <LI> 2D Search structures<BR>
      Additional range search operations taking a predicate functor have been
      added </li>
  </UL>

<H3>Support Library</H3>
<UL>
<LI>   Qt_widget
  <UL>
  <LI> We have added a new class for visualization of 2D CGAL objects.
       It is derived from Trolltech's Qt class QWidget and privdes a
       used to scale and pan. </li>
  <LI> Some demos were developed for the following packages: 2D Alpha shapes,
       2D Convex Hull, Largest empty 2D rectangle, Maximum k-gon,
       Minimum ellipse,  Minimum 2D quadrilateral, 2D polygon partitioning
       2D regular and constrained triangulation. </li>
  <LI> Tutorials are available to help users get used to Qt_widget </li>
  </UL> </li>
  <BR><BR>

<LI> Timer<BR>

     Fixed Timer class (for user process time) to have no wrap-around
     anymore on Posix-compliant systems. </li>
</UL>

<p>
The following functionality is no longer supported:
<UL>
<LI> Planar maps of infinite curves (the so-called planar map bounding-box). </li>
</UL>

<p>
Bugs in the following packages have been fixed:
   3D Convex hull, 2D Polygon partition, simple polygon generator

<p>
Also attempts have been made to assure compatability with the upcoming LEDA
release that introduces the leda namespace.

<p>
<H3>Known problems</H3>
<UL>
<LI> 2D Nef Polyhedra contains a memory leak.  Memory problems are also
     the likely cause of occasional run-time errors on some platforms. </li>
<LI> The d-dimensional convex hull computation produces run-time errors on
     some platforms because of memory management bugs. </li>
<LI> The new Halfedge Data Structure design introduced with release 2.3
     does not work on VC6.  See the release notes in the manual for more
     information. </li>
<LI> The following deficiencies relate to planar maps, planar maps of
     intersecting curves (pmwx), arrangements and sweep line. </li>
   <UL>
    <LI> On KCC, Borland and SunPro we guarantee neither compilation nor
         correct execution for all of the packages above. </li>
    <LI> On VC6 and VC7 we guarantee neither compilation nor correct
         execution of the sweep line package. </li>
    <LI> On CC (on Irix 6.5) the trapezoidal decomposition point location
         strategy is problematic when used with planar maps, pmwx, or
         arrangements (mind that this is the default for planar maps). </li>
    <LI> On CC (on Irix 6.5) sweep line with polyline traits does not compile
         (mind that the so-called leda polyline traits does compile). </li>
    <LI> On g++ (on Irix 6.5) the segment-circle (Arr_segment_circle_traits_2)
         traits does not compile for either of the above packages. </li>
   </UL>
</UL>
