---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 3.2 released"
description: "CGAL 3.2"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-3.2">Download CGAL-3.2</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/Manual/3.2/doc_html/cgal_manual/packages.html">CGAL-3.2 documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 3.2 differs from <a href="../../../../2004/12/01/cgal-31">CGAL 3.1</a> in the platforms that are supported and
in functionality.  There have also been a number of bug fixes for this release.</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### Supported platforms
  - For Visual C++, the installation scripts choose the multi-threaded
    dynamically linked runtime (/MD). Before it was the single-threaded
    static runtime (/ML).

#### No longer supported
  - SunPro CC versions 5.4 and 5.5 on Solaris
  - SGI Mips Pro

### Installation
  - The install tool tries to find third party libraries at "standard" locations.
  - Installers for Apple, Windows, and rpms.

### Manuals
  - User and Reference manual pages of a package are now in the same chapter.

### 2D Circular Kernel (new package)
  - This package is an extension of the linear CGAL Kernel. It offers
    functionalities on circles, circular arcs and line segments in the
    plane.

### 2D Regularized Boolean Set-Operations (new package)
  - This package consists of the implementation of Boolean
    set-operations on point sets bounded by weakly x-monotone curves in
    2-dimensional Euclidean space. In particular, it contains the
    implementation of regularized Boolean set-operations, intersection
    predicates, and point containment predicates.

### 2D Straight Skeleton and Polygon Offsetting (new package)
  - This package implements an algorithm to construct a halfedge data
    structure representing the straight skeleton in the interior of 2D
    polygons with holes and an algorithm to construct inward offset
    polygons at any offset distance given a straight skeleton.

### 2D Voronoi Diagram Adaptor (new package)
  - This package provides an adaptor that adapts a 2-dimensional
    triangulated Delaunay graph to the corresponding Voronoi diagram,
    represented as a doubly connected edge list (DCEL) data structure.
    The adaptor has the ability to automatically eliminate, in a
    consistent manner, degenerate features of the Voronoi diagram, that
    are artifacts of the requirement that Delaunay graphs should be
    triangulated even in degenerate configurations. Depending on the
    type of operations that the underlying Delaunay graph supports, the
    adaptor allows for the incremental or dynamic construction of
    Voronoi diagrams and can support point location queries.

### 3D Surface Mesher (new package)
  - This package provides functions to generate surface meshes that
    interpolate smooth surfaces. The meshing algorithm is based on
    Delaunay refinement and provides some guarantees on the resulting
    mesh: the user is able to control the size and shape of the mesh
    elements and the accuracy of the surface approximation. There is no
    restriction on the topology and number of components of input
    surfaces. The surface mesher may also be used for non smooth
    surfaces but without guarantee.
  - Currently, implementations are provided for implicit surfaces
    described as the zero level set of some function and surfaces
    described as a gray level set in a three-dimensional image.

### 3D Surface Subdivision Methods (new package)
  - Subdivision methods recursively refine a control mesh and generate
    points approximating the limit surface. This package consists of
    four popular subdivision methods and their refinement hosts.
    Supported subdivision methods include Catmull-Clark, Loop, Doo-Sabin
    and sqrt(3) subdivisions. Their respective refinement hosts are PQQ,
    PTQ, DQQ and sqrt(3) refinements. Variations of those methods can be
    easily extended by substituting the geometry computation of the
    refinement host.

### Planar Parameterization of Triangulated Surface Meshes (new package)
  - Parameterizing a surface amounts to finding a one-to-one mapping
    from a suitable domain to the surface. In this package, we focus on
    triangulated surfaces that are homeomorphic to a disk and on
    piecewise linear mappings into a planar domain. This package
    implements some of the state-of-the-art surface mesh
    parameterization methods, such as least squares conformal maps,
    discrete conformal map, discrete authalic parameterization, Floater
    mean value coordinates or Tutte barycentric mapping.

### Principal Component Analysis (new package)
  - This package provides functions to compute global informations on
    the shape of a set of 2D or 3D objects such as points. It provides
    the computation of axis-aligned bounding boxes, centroids of point
    sets, barycenters of weighted point sets, as well as linear least
    squares fitting for point sets in 2D, and point sets as well as
    triangle sets in 3D.

### 2D Placement of Streamlines (new package)
  - Visualizing vector fields is important for many application domains.
    A good way to do it is to generate streamlines that describe the
    flow behaviour. This package implements the "Farthest Point Seeding"
    algorithm for placing streamlines in 2D vector fields. It generates
    a list of streamlines corresponding to an input flow using a
    specified separating distance. The algorithm uses a Delaunay
    triangulation to model objects and adress different queries, and
    relies on choosing the centers of the biggest empty circles to start
    the integration of the streamlines.

### Kinetic Data Structures (new package)
  - Kinetic data structures allow combinatorial structures to be
    maintained as the primitives move. The package provides
    implementations of kinetic data structures for Delaunay
    triangulations in two and three dimensions, sorting of points in one
    dimension and regular triangulations in three dimensions. The
    package supports exact or inexact operations on primitives which
    move along polynomial trajectories.

### Kinetic Framework (new package)
  - Kinetic data structures allow combinatorial geometric structures to
    be maintained as the primitives move. The package provides a
    framework to ease implementing and debugging kinetic data
    structures. The package supports exact or inexact operations on
    primitives which move along polynomial trajectories.

### Smallest Enclosing Ellipsoid (new package)
  - This algorithm is new in the chapter Geometric Optimisation.

### 2D Arrangement (major revision)
  - This package can be used to construct, maintain, alter, and display
    arrangements in the plane. Once an arrangement is constructed, the
    package can be used to obtain results of various queries on the
    arrangement, such as point location. The package also includes
    generic implementations of two algorithmic frameworks, that are,
    computing the zone of an arrangement, and line-sweeping the plane,
    the arrangements is embedded on.
  - Arrangements and arrangement components can also be extended to
    store additional data. An important extension stores the
    construction history of the arrangement, such that it is possible to
    obtain the originating curve of an arrangement subcurve.

### Geometric Optimisation (major revision)
  - The underlying QP solver which is the foundation for several
    algorithms in the Geometric Optimisation chapter has been completely
    rewritten.

### 3D Triangulation (new functionality)
  - `Regular_triangulation_3` now offers vertex removal.
</div>
