---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 3.3.1 released"
description: "CGAL 3.3.1"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-3.3.1">Download CGAL-3.3.1</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/Manual/3.3.1/doc_html/cgal_manual/packages.html">CGAL-3.3.1 documentation</a>

<p>This is a bug fix release for <a href="../../../../2007/06/01/cgal-33">CGAL 3.3</a>.</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### Skin Surface Meshing (new package)

-   The new Skin Surface Meshing package had been forgotten in the list
    of changes and the release announcement of CGAL 3.3: This package
    allows to build a triangular mesh of a skin surface. Skin surfaces
    are used for modeling large molecules in biological computing.

### General

-   Intel C++ 9 was wrongly recognized as unsupported by install_cgal.
-   Added autolink (for Visual C++) for the CGALImageIO and CGALPDB
    libraries.
-   Fixed bug in `Memory_sizer` when using more than 4GB of memory
    (64bit).

### Number Types

-   Fixed bug in FPU rounding mode macros (affected only the alpha architecture).
-   Fixed bug in MP_Float constructor from double for some particular values.
-   Fixed bug in `to_double(Lazy_exact_nt)` sometimes returning `NaN`.

### Kernel

-   Fixed forgotten derivation in `Circular_kernel_2::Has_on_2`.
-   Added some missing functions in `Bbox_3` compared to `Bbox_2`.

### Arrangements

-   Fixed a bug in the `Arrangement_2` package in dual arrangement
    representation for Boost graphs when reporting all halfedges of a
    face.
-   Fixed a bug in the Arrangement sweep-line when using a specific
    polyline configuration.
-   Fixed bug in `Arrangement_2` in walk along a line point location for
    unbounded curves.
-   Fixed bug in aggregated insertion to `Arrangement_2`.
-   Fixed bug in `Arrangment_2` class when inserting an unbounded curve
    from an existing vertex.
-   Fixed bug when dealing with a degenerate conic arc in
    `Arr_conic_traits_2` of the Arrangment package, meaning a line
    segment which is part of a degenerate parabola/hyperbola.
-   Fixed bug in the Bezier traits-class: properly handle line segments.
    properly handle comparison near a vertical tangency.

### 2D Polygon

-   Fixed bug in degenerate case of `Polygon_2::is_convex()` for equal points.

### 2D Triangulations

-   Fixed bug in `Regular_triangulation_2`.

### 3D Triangulations

-   Added a `circumcenter()` function in the default Cell type parameter
    `Triangulation_ds_cell_base_3`, so that the `dual()` member
    function of Delaunay still work as before, without requiring the
    explicit use of `Triangulation_cell_base`.
-   Added missing `operator->()` to `Facet_circulator`.

### Interpolation

-   Fixed bug in Interpolation 3D about the normalization coefficient
    initialization.

### 3D Boolean Operations on Nef Polyhedra

-   Fixed bug in construction of `Nef_polyhedron_3` from off-file. Now,
    always the inner volume is selected.
-   Fixed bug in conversion from `Nef_polyhedron_3` to `Polyhedron_3`.
    `Polyhedron_3` was not cleared at the beginning.
-   Fixed bug in `Nef_polyhedron_3` in update of indexes for
    construction of external structure.

### Third Party Libraries Shipped with CGAL

-   TAUCS supports now 64 bits platforms.
-   CAUTION: Since version 3.3.1, CGAL is no longer compatible with the
    official release of TAUCS (currently 2.2). Make sure to use the
    version modified by the CGAL project and available from the download
    section of <a href="https://www.cgal.org">www.cgal.org</a>.

</div>
