---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 3.5 released"
description: "CGAL 3.5"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-3.5">Download CGAL-3.5</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/Manual/3.5/doc_html/cgal_manual/packages.html">CGAL-3.5 documentation</a>

<p><b>CGAL releases will now be published about every six months. As a transition
release, CGAL-3.5 has been developed in a 9 months period, starting from the release CGAL-3.4.</b></p>

<p>CGAL 3.5 differs from <a href="../../../../2009/01/22/cgal-34">CGAL 3.4</a> in the platforms that are supported and
in functionality. There have also been a number of bug fixes for this release.</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### General

- Additional supported platforms:
    - GNU g++ 4.4 supported.
    - Intel Compiler 11 supported on Linux
- Fixed ABI incompatibilities when mixing CGAL and Boost Program
    Options on Windows/Visual C++ (the compilation flag `-D_SECURE_SCL=0` is no longer used in Debug mode).

### Geometry Kernels

#### 3D Spherical Geometry Kernel

- Add functionalities to manipulate circles, circular arcs and points that belong to the same sphere.

### Polygons

#### 2D Regularized Boolean Set-Operations

- The polygon validation operations were enhanced and their interface
    was improved. They are now offered as free functions and applied properly.

#### 2D Straight Skeleton and Polygon Offsetting

- Updated the manual to document the new partial skeletons feature (already in the code since 3.4)

### Arrangements

#### 2D Arrangements

- The member function `is_at_infinity()` of `Arrangement_2::Vertex` was
  replaced by the new function `is_at_open_boundary()`. The former is
  deprecated. While still supported in version 3.5, It will not be
  supported in future releases. The member functions
  `boundary_type_in_x() and `boundary_type_in_y()` were permanently
  replaced by the functions `parameter_space_in_x()` and
  parameter_space_in_y(), respectively. The 2 new functions return
  an enumeration of a new type, namely Arr_parameter_space.
- The tags in the geometry traits that indicate the type of boundary
  of the embedding surface were replaced by the following new tags:
  `Arr_left_side_tag`, `Arr_bottom_side_tag`, `Arr_top_side_tag`, and
  `Arr_right_side_tag` In addition, the code was change, and now it
  is possible not to indicate the tags at all. Default values are
  assumed. This however will produce warning messages, and should be
  avoided.
- All operations of the geometry traits-class were made 'const'. This
  change was reflected in the code of this package and all other
  packages that are based on it. Traits classes that maintain state,
  should declare the data members that store the state as mutable.

#### Envelopes of Surfaces in 3D

- A few bugs in the code that computes envelopes were fixed, in
  particular in the code that computes the envelopes of planes.

### Triangulations and Delaunay Triangulations

#### 3D Periodic Triangulations (new package)

- This package allows to build and handle triangulations of point sets
  in the three dimensional flat torus. Triangulations are built
  incrementally and can be modified by insertion or removal of
  vertices. They offer point location facilities.

### Mesh Generation

#### Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets (new package)

- This CGAL package implements an implicit surface reconstruction
  method: Poisson Surface Reconstruction. The input is an unorganized
  point set with oriented normals.

#### 3D Mesh Generation (new package)

- This package generates 3 dimensional meshes. It computes isotropic
  simplicial meshes for domains or multidomains provided that a domain
  descriptor, able to answer queries from a few different types on the
  domain, is given. In the current version, Mesh_3 generate meshes
  for domain described through implicit functional, 3D images or
  polyhedral boundaries. The output is a 3D mesh of the domain volume
  and conformal surface meshes for all the boundary and subdividing
  surfaces.

### Geometry Processing

#### Triangulated Surface Mesh Simplification

- **Breaking change:** in the passing of the visitor object.
- Fixed a bug in the `link_condition` test
- Added a geometric test to avoid folding of facets
- Fixed a bug in the handling of overflow in the LindstromTurk computations.
- Updated the manual to account for the new visitor interface.

#### Point Set Processing (new package)

- This packages implements a set of algorithms for analysis,
  processing, and normal estimation and orientation of point sets.

### Spatial Searching and Sorting

#### AABB tree (new package)

- This package implements a hierarchy of axis-aligned bounding boxes
  (a AABB tree) for efficient intersection and distance computations
  between 3D queries and sets of input 3D geometric objects.

### Support Library

#### CGAL_ipelets (new package):

- Object that eases the writing of Ipe's plugins that use CGAL.
  Plugins for CGAL main 2D algorithm are provided as demo.
</div>
