---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 3.5 beta1"
description: "CGAL 3.5 beta1 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p>
  CGAL releases will now be published about every six months. As a transition
  release, CGAL-3.5 has been developed during 9 months from the release
  CGAL-3.4.</p>

<p>Version 3.5 differs from version 3.4 in the platforms that are supported and
  in functionality.  There have also been a number of bug fixes for this release.</p>

<h3>General</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Additional supported platforms:
    <ul>
      <li>GNU g++ 4.4 supported.
      <li>Intel Compiler 11 supported on Linux
    </ul>
  <li>Fixed ABI incompatibilities when mixing CGAL and Boost Program Options
    on Windows/Visual C++ (the compilation flag -D_SECURE_SCL=0 is not
    longer use in Debug mode).
</ul>

<h3>Geometry Kernels</h3>

<h4>3D Spherical Geometry Kernel</h4>
<ul>
  <li>
    Add functionalities to manipulate circles, circular arcs and points
    that belong to the same sphere.

</ul>
<h3>Polygons</h3>

<h4>2D Regularized Boolean Set-Operations</h4>
<ul>
  <li>The polygon validation operations were enhanced and their interface was
    improved. They are now offered as free functions and applied properly.

</ul>
<h4>2D Straight Skeleton and Polygon Offsetting </h4>
<ul>
  <li>Updated the manual to document the new partial skeletons feature
    (already in the code since 3.4)

</ul>

<h3>Arrangements</h3>

<h4>2D Arrangements</h4>
<ul>
  <li>The member function is_at_infinity() of Arrangement_2::Vertex was
    replaced by the new function is_at_open_boundary(). The former is
    deprecated. While still supported in version 3.5, It will not be
    supported in future releases. The member functions boundary_type_in_x()
    and boundary_type_in_y() were permanently replaced by the functions
    parameter_space_in_x() and parameter_space_in_y(), respectively. The 2
    new functions return an enumeration of a new type, namely
    Arr_parameter_space.

  <li> The tags in the geometry traits that indicate the type of boundary of
    the embedding surface were replaced by the following new tags:
    Arr_left_side_tag
    Arr_bottom_side_tag
    Arr_top_side_tag
    Arr_right_side_tag
    In addition, the code was change, and now it is possible not to
    indicate the tags at all. Default values are assumed. This however will
    produce warning messages, and should be avoided.

  <li> All operations of the geometry traits-class were made 'const'. This
    change was reflected in the code of this package and all other packages
    that are based on it. Traits classes that maintain state, should
    declare the data members that store the state as mutable.

</ul>
<h4>Envelopes of Surfaces in 3D</h4>
<ul>
  <li> A few bugs in the code that computes envelopes were fixed, in
    particular in the code that computes the envelopes of planes.

</ul>

<h3>Triangulations and Delaunay Triangulations</h3>

<h4>3D Periodic Triangulations (new package)</h4>

<ul>
  <li> This package allows to build and handle triangulations of point sets in
    the three dimensional flat torus. Triangulations are built
    incrementally and can be modified by insertion or removal of
    vertices. They offer point location facilities.

</ul>

<h3>Mesh Generation</h3>

<h4>Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets (new package)</h4>
<ul>
  <li> This CGAL package implements an implicit surface reconstruction method:
    Poisson Surface Reconstruction. The input is an unorganized point set
    with oriented normals.

</ul>
<h4>3D Mesh Generation (new package)</h4>
<ul>
  <li> This package generates 3 dimensional meshes.  It computes isotropic
    simplicial meshes for domains or multidomains provided that a domain
    descriptor, able to answer queries from a few different types on the
    domain, is given.  In the current version, Mesh_3 generate meshes for
    domain described through implicit functional, 3D images or polyhedral
    boundaries.  The output is a 3D mesh of the domain volume and conformal
    surface meshes for all the boundary and subdividing surfaces.

</ul>
<h3>Geometry Processing</h3>

<h4>Triangulated Surface Mesh Simplification</h4>

<ul>
  <li>  BREAKING API change in the passing of the visitor object.

  <li>  Fixed a bug in the link_condition test

  <li>  Added a geometric test to avoid folding of facets

  <li>  Fixed a bug in the handling of overflow in the LindstromTurk
    computations

  <li>  Updated the manual to account for the new visitor interface

</ul>
<h4>Point Set Processing (new package)</h4>

<ul>
  <li>  This packages implements a set of algorithms for analysis, processing,
    and normal estimation and orientation of point sets.

</ul>

<h3>Spatial Searching and Sorting</h3>

<h4>AABB tree (new package)</h4>

<ul>
  <li>This package implements a hierarchy of axis-aligned bounding boxes (a
    AABB tree) for efficient intersection and distance computations between
    3D queries and sets of input 3D geometric objects.

</ul>
<h3>Support Library</h3>

<h4>CGAL_ipelets (new package):</h4>
<ul>
  <li> Object that eases the writing of Ipe's plugins that use CGAL.
    Plugins for CGAL main 2D algorithm are provided as demo.


</ul>
