---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 3.7 released"
description: "CGAL 3.7"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-download"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-3.7">Download CGAL-3.7</a>

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/Manual/3.7/doc_html/cgal_manual/packages.html">CGAL-3.7 documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 3.7 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2010/06/30/cgal-361">CGAL 3.6.1</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### General

-   The configuration of CGAL libraries now requires CMake&gt;=2.6.
-   Changes in the set of supported platforms:
    -   GNU g++ 4.5 supported (with or without the compilation option
        -std=c++0x).
    -   Initial support for the option -strict-ansi of the Intel
        Compiler 11. The CGAL libraries compile with that option, and
        most CGAL headers have been fixed. The packages "3D Boolean
        Operations on Nef Polyhedra" (Nef_3), "Convex Decomposition of
        Polyhedra" (Convex_decomposition_3), and "3D Minkowski Sum of
        Polyhedra" (Minkowski_sum_3) are known to still fail to
        compile with that compiler flag.
    -   The Microsoft Windows Visual C++ compiler 2010 (VC10), that was
        experimentally supported by CGAL-3.6.1, is now fully supported.
        Note that CMake&gt;=2.8.2 is required for that support.
    -   The Microsoft Windows Visual C++ compiler 2005 (VC8) is no
        longer supported by the CGAL project since CGAL-3.7.
    -   With Microsoft Windows Visual C++ (VC9 and VC10), the optional
        dependencies Gmp, Mpfr, Blas, Lapack, Taucs no longer use
        Boost-style name mangling. Only one variant is now provided by
        the CGAL Windows installer (release, with dynamic runtime).
-   Some demos now require a version of Qt4 &gt;= 4.3.
-   CGAL_PDB is no longer provided with CGAL. An alternative solution
    for people interested in reading PDB files is to use ESBTL
    (http://esbtl.sourceforge.net/).
-   Fixed issues of the CGAL wrappers around the CORE library, on 64 bits
    platforms.

### Arithmetic and Algebra

-   New models `Algebraic_kernel_d_1` and `Algebraic_kernel_d_2` for
    the corresponding concepts. They provide generic support for various
    coefficient types.

### Arrangements

-   A new model `Arr_algebraic_segment_traits_2` of
    `ArrangementTraits_2` that supports algebraic curves of arbitrary
    degree in the plane

### 2D Triangulations

-   The Delaunay and regular 2D triangulations now use a symbolic
    perturbation to choose a particular triangulation in co-circular
    cases.
-   The return type of the template member function `insert(It beg, It
    end)`, taking an iterator range of points, has been changed from int
    to `std::ptrdiff_t`.
-   Classes `Triangulation_euclidean_traits_xy_3,`
    `Triangulation_euclidean_traits_yz_3` and
    `Triangulation_euclidean_traits_xz_3` are now model of the concept
    ConstrainedTriangulationTraits_2. They can be used with and without
    intersection of constraints.
-   2D Delaunay and basic triangulations now provide vertex relocation
    by the mean of these two new methods: move and
    move_if_no_collision. The methods are also available for the
    hierarchy (`Triangulation_hierarchy_2`).

### 3D Triangulations

-   The return type of the template member function `insert(It beg, It
    end)`, taking an iterator range of points, has been changed from int
    to `std::ptrdiff_t`.
-   3D Delaunay triangulations now provide vertex relocation by the mean
    of these two new methods: move and move_if_no_collision. This
    works in both `Compact_policy` and `Fast_policy`.

### 2D and 3D Alpha Shapes

-   The type `int` in the API has been changed to `std::size_t` so that
    CGAL can deal with large data sets (64 bit addresses).

### 2D Mesh Generation

-   The execution of the 2D mesh generator is now deterministic (same at
    each run).

### 3D Mesh Generation

-   The efficiency of the 3D mesh generator has been improved (the
    number of calls to the oracle per inserted vertex has globally
    decrease). This is achieved through a slight change of the mesh
    generator strategy which implies that a surface component that is
    not detected at the surface mesher level will never be discovered by
    chance, owing to the refinement of some tetrahedra, as it could
    happen before. Please note that defining the macro
    `CGAL_MESH_3_USE_OLD_SURFACE_RESTRICTED_DELAUNAY_UPDATE`
    switches back to the old behavior.
-   A demo program is now available.

### Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets

-   Improved performance and minor bug fix.

### 2D Range and Neighbor Search

-   The type `int` in the API has been changed to `std::size_t` so that
    CGAL can deal with large data sets (64 bit addresses).
</div>
