---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 3.6.1 released"
description: "CGAL 3.6.1"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-download"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-3.6.1">Download CGAL-3.6.1</a>

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/Manual/3.6.1/doc_html/cgal_manual/packages.html">CGAL-3.6.1 documentation</a>

<p>This is a bug fix release. The following has been changed since <a href="../../../../2010/03/22/cgal-36">CGAL 3.6</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### General

-   Fix compilation errors with recent Boost versions (since 1.40).
-   Initial support for the Microsoft Visual C++ compiler 10.0 (MSVC
    2010). For that support, CMake&gt;=2.8.2 is required. Note also that
    the compiler option "/bigobj" is necessary to compile some CGAL
    programs with MSVC 2010.

### Polynomial

-   Fix compilation errors with the Microsoft Visual C++ compiler and
    the Intel C++ compiler.

### Polyhedron

-   Fix a compilation errors in demo/Polyhedron/:
-   issue with the location of qglobal.h of Qt4 on MacOS X,
-   missing texture.cpp, if TAUCS is used,
-   Fix the location of built plugins of `demo/Polyhedron/`, when CGAL is
    configured with WITH_demos=ON

### 3D Periodic Triangulations

-   Fixed bug in the triangulation hierarchy for periodic
    triangulations.

### 2D Mesh Generation

-   Fixed a bug that lead to precondition violation.
-   Improve the user manual about the member function `is_in_domain()` of the `Face` type.
-   The 2D meshing process is now deterministic (sorting of bad faces no
    longer relies on pointers comparisons).

### 3D Mesh Generation

-   Fix a linking errors (duplicate symbols) when
    `<CGAL/refine_mesh_3.h>` is included in different compilation units.

### Spatial Searching

-   Fix a bug in `<CGAL/Orthogonal_k_neighbor_search.h>` when several
    nearest neighbors are at the same distance from the query point.

### IO Streams

-   Fix a bug in `<CGAL/IO/VRML_2_ostream.h>` that generated VRML 2
    files with an invalid syntax for IndexedFaceSet nodes.

### Triangulation_2

-   Added missing `Compare_distance_2` functor in trait classes
    `Triangulation_euclidean_traits_xy_3`
    `Triangulation_euclidean_traits_yz_3` and
    `Triangulation_euclidean_traits_xz_3`. This was preventing calling
    member function nearest_vertex of `Delaunay_triangulation_2`
    instantiated with one of these traits.
</div>
