---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 3.8"
description: "CGAL 3.8 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p>
  CGAL 3.8 offers the following improvements and new functionality :  </p>

<h3>General</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Boost version 1.39 at least is now required.</li>
  <li>Initial support for the LLVM Clang compiler (prereleases of version 2.9).</li>
  <li>Full support for the options -strict-ansi of the Intel Compiler 11,
    and -ansi of the GNU g++ compiler.</li>
  <li>Adding a concept of ranges. In the following releases, it will be the
    way to provide a set of objects (vs. a couple of iterators).</li>
  <li>Fix a memory leak in CORE polynomials.</li>
  <li>Various fixes in the manual.</li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Mesh Generation (major new feature added)</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Adding the possibility to handle sharp features: the 3D Mesh
    generation package now offers the possibility to get in the final mesh an
    accurate representation of 1-dimensional sharp features present in the
    description of the input domain.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Triangulations (major new feature added)</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add a way to efficiently insert a range of points with information
    into a 2D Delaunay and regular triangulation. </li>
  <li>Add member function mirror_edge taking an edge as parameter. </li>
  <li>Fix an infinite loop in constrained triangulation. </li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Triangulations (major new feature added)</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add a way to efficiently insert a range of points with information into
    a 3D Delaunay and regular triangulation. </li>
  <li>Add a member function to remove a cluster of points from a Delaunay or
    regular triangulation. </li>
  <li>function vertices_in_conflict is renamed vertices_on_conflict_zone_boundary
    for Delaunay and regular triangulation. Function vertices_inside_conflict_zone
    is added to regular triangulation. </li>
  <li>Structural filtering is now internally used in locate function of Delaunay
    and regular triangulation. It improves average construction time by 20%.
  <li>Added demo. </li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Alpha Shapes (major new feature added)</h3>
<ul>
  <li> The new class Fixed_alpha_shape_3 provides a robust and
    faster way to compute one alpha shape (with a fixed value of alpha). </li>
</ul>


<h3>AABB tree</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Adding the possibility to iteratively add primitives to an existing
    tree and to build it only when no further insertion is needed. </li>
</ul>

<h3>2D and 3D Kernel</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Better handling of 2D points with elevation (3D points projected onto
    trivial planes). More general traits classes (Projection_traits_xy_3,
    Projection_traits_yz_3,Projection_traits_yz_3) are provided to work with
    triangulations, algorithms on polygons, alpha-shapes, convex hull algorithm...
    Usage of former equivalent traits classes in different packages is now deprecated. </li>
  <li>Exact_predicates_exact_constructions_kernel now better use the static filters
    which leads to performance improvements. </li>
  <li>Add an overload for the global function angle, taking three 3D points. </li>
  <li>In the 2D and 3D kernel concept, the constant Boolean Has_filtered_predicates
    is now deprecated. It is now required to use Has_filtered_predicates_tag
    (being either Tag_true or Tag_false). </li>
  <li>Compare_distance_2 and Compare_distance_3 provide additional operators
    for 3 and 4 elements. </li>
  <li>Add intersection test and intersection computation capabilities
    between an object of type Ray_3 and either an object of type Line_3, Segment_3 or Ray_3. </li>
  <li>Improve intersection test performance between an object of type Bbox_3 and an object of type
    Plane_3 or Triangle_3 by avoiding arithmetic filter failures. </li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Envelope</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Env_default_diagram_1 is deprecated, Envelope_diagram_1 should be used instead. </li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Envelope</h3>
<ul>
  <li>A new demo program called <tt>L1_Voronoi_diagram_2</tt> has been
    introduced. It demonstrates how 2D Voronoi diagrams of points under
    the L1 metric are constructed using lower envelopes. </li>
</ul>


<h3>dD Kernel</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add functor Compute_coordinate_d to Kernel_d concept. </li>
</ul>

<h3>Geometric Object Generators</h3>
<ul>
  <li> CGAL::Random uses boost::rand48 instead of std::rand. </li>
  <li>Adding to CGAL::Random a way to generate random integers. </li>
  <li>Adding generators for dD points. </li>
</ul>

<h3>Algebraic Foundations</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Algebraic_structure_traits now provides an Inverse functor for Fields.
    There is also a new global function inverse. </li>
</ul>

<h3>Bounding Volumes</h3>
<ul>
  <li> dD Min sphere of spheres has a new traits class for the min sphere of points. </li>
</ul>

<h3>Triangulated Surface Mesh Simplification</h3>
<ul>
  <li>The priority queue internally used to prioritize edge simplifications is no longer
    a relaxed heap but a binomial heap. This fix guarantees that all edges satisfying
    a simplification criteria are removed (if possible). </li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Boolean Operations on Nef Polyhedra</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Allow construction of a 3D nef polyhedron from a 3D polyhedron with normals. </li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Arrangements</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Fix a bug in the method insert_at_vertices of the Arrangement_2 class. </li>
  <li>Fix several bugs in the traits class Arr_Bezier_curve_traits_2 for arrangement of Bezier curves. </li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Minkowski Sums</h3>
<ul>
  <li>A bug in the convolution method was fixed. </li>
</ul>
