---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 3.9 released"
description: "CGAL 3.9"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-3.9">Download CGAL-3.9</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/Manual/3.9/doc_html/cgal_manual/packages.html">CGAL-3.9 documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 3.9 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2011/04/19/cgal-38">CGAL 3.8</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### General

-   The class `Root_of_2` is now deprecated. It is recommended to use
    the class `Sqrt_extension` instead.
-   The class `Sqrt_extension` is now used everywhere in CGAL where an
    algebraic number of degree 2 is needed. This change has been done in
    the `Root_of_traits` mechanism (indirectly packages 2D Circular
    kernel and 3D Spherical kernel) and the packages 2D Segment Delaunay
    Graphs and 2D Arrangements.
-   Various fixes in the manual.

### Combinatorial Maps (new package)

-   This package provides a new combinatorial data structure allowing to
    describe any orientable subdivided object whatever its dimension. It
    describes all cells of the subdivision and all the incidence and
    adjacency relations between these cells. For example it allows to
    describe a 3D object subdivided in vertices, edges, faces and
    volumes. This data structure can be seen as the generalization in dD
    of the halfedge data structure.

### 3D Convex Hull (major performance improvement)

-   The quickhull implementation of CGAL (`CGAL::convex_hull_3`) has
    been worked out to provide very better performances.
-   The function `CGAL::convex_hull_3` no longer computes the plane
    equations of the facets of the output polyhedron. However an example
    is provided to show how to compute them easily.
-   A global function `convex_hull_3_to_polyhedron_3` is now provided to
    extract the convex hull of a 3D points set from a triangulation of
    these points.

### dD Spatial Searching (major new feature added)

-   A traits-class and distance adapter that together with a point
    property map, allow to make nearest neighbor queries on keys instead
    of points have been added.
-   Few bug fixes in the documentation have revealed some
    inconsistencies that have been corrected. Two traits class concept
    are now documented (`RangeSearchTraits` and `SearchTraits`). Most
    other changes concerns only classes documented as advanced. One
    issue that user can encounter is due to an additional requirement on
    the nested class `Construct_cartesian_const_iterator_d` defined in
    the concept SearchTraits that must provide a nested type
    `result_type`.

### Spatial Sorting (major new feature added)

-   General dimension is now supported.
-   Hilbert sorting admits now two policies: splitting at median or at
    middle (see user manual).
-   Using a property map, sorting on keys instead of points is now
    easier

### dD Kernel

-   The d-dimensional kernel concept and models have been modified to
    additionally provide two new functors `Less_coordinate_d` and
    `Point_dimension_d`.

### 2D Arrangements

-   A new geometry-traits class that handles rational arcs, namely
    `Arr_rational_function_traits_2`, has been introduced. It replaced
    an old traits class, which handled the same family of curves, but it
    was less efficient. The new traits exploits CGAL algebraic kernels
    and polynomials, which were not available at the time the old traits
    class was developed.
-   A new geometry traits concept called
    `ArrangementOpenBoundaryTraits_2` has been introduced. A model of
    this concept supports curves that approach the open boundary of an
    iso-rectangular area called parameter space, which can be unbounded
    or bounded. The general code of the package, however, supports only
    the unbounded parameter space. We intend to enhance the general code
    to support also bounded parameter spaces in a future release.
-   The deprecated member function `is_at_infinity()` of
    `Arrangement_2::Vertex` has been removed. It has been previously
    replaced new function `is_at_open_boundary()`.
-   The tags in the geometry traits that indicate the type of boundary
    of the embedding surface were replaced by the following new tags:
    `Left_side_category`, `Bottom_side_category`, `Top_side_category`, and `Right_side_category`.
-  It is still possible not to indicate the tags at all. Default values
    are assumed. This however will produce warning messages, and should
    be avoided.
</div>
