---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 3.8 beta1 released"
description: "CGAL 3.8 beta1"
category:
tags: ["beta-release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-3.8-beta1">Download CGAL-3.8 beta1</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/Manual/3.8/doc_html/cgal_manual/packages.html">CGAL-3.8 beta documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 3.8 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2010/10/15/cgal-37">CGAL 3.7</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### General

-   Boost version 1.39 (or later) is now required.
-   Initial support for the LLVM Clang compiler (prereleases of version 2.9).
-   Full support for the options -strict-ansi of the Intel Compiler 11,
    and -ansi of the GNU g++ compiler.
-   Added a concept of ranges. In the following releases, it will be
    the way to provide a set of objects (vs. a couple of iterators).
-   Fixed a memory leak in CORE polynomials.
-   Various fixes in the manual.

### 3D Mesh Generation (major new feature added)

-   Adding the possibility to handle sharp features: the 3D Mesh
    generation package now offers the possibility to get in the final
    mesh an accurate representation of 1-dimensional sharp features
    present in the description of the input domain.

### 2D Triangulations (major new feature added)

-   Added a way to efficiently insert a range of points with information
    into a 2D Delaunay and regular triangulation.
-   Added member function `mirror_edge()` taking an edge as parameter.
-   Fixed an infinite loop in constrained triangulation.

### 3D Triangulations (major new feature added)

-   Added a way to efficiently insert a range of points with information
    into a 3D Delaunay and regular triangulation.
-   Added a member function to remove a cluster of points from a Delaunay
    or regular triangulation.
-   The function `vertices_in_conflict()` is renamed
    `vertices_on_conflict_zone_boundary()` for Delaunay and regular
    triangulation. Function `vertices_inside_conflict_zone()` is added to
    regular triangulation.
-   Structural filtering is now internally used in the `locate()` function of
    Delaunay and regular triangulation. It improves average construction
    time by 20%.
-   Added demo.

### 3D Alpha Shapes (major new feature added)

-   The new class `Fixed_alpha_shape_3` provides a robust and faster
    way to compute one alpha shape (with a fixed value of alpha).

### AABB tree

-   Adding the possibility to iteratively add primitives to an existing
    tree and to build it only when no further insertion is needed.

### 2D and 3D Kernel

-   Better handling of 2D points with elevation (3D points projected
    onto trivial planes). More general traits classes (`Projection_traits_xy_3`,
    `Projection_traits_yz_3`, `Projection_traits_yz_3`) are provided to
    work with triangulations, algorithms on polygons, alpha-shapes,
    convex hull algorithm... Usage of former equivalent traits classes
    in different packages is now deprecated.
-   `Exact_predicates_exact_constructions_kernel` now better use the
    static filters which leads to performance improvements.
-   Add an overload for the global function angle, taking three 3D
    points.
-   In the 2D and 3D kernel concept, the constant Boolean
    Has_filtered_predicates is now deprecated. It is now required to
    use Has_filtered_predicates_tag (being either `Tag_true` or
    `Tag_false`).
-   `Compare_distance_2` and `Compare_distance_3` provide additional
    operators for 3 and 4 elements.
-   Add intersection test and intersection computation capabilities
    between an object of type `Ray_3` and either an object of type
    `Line_3`, `Segment_3` or `Ray_3`.
-   Improve intersection test performance between an object of type
    `Bbox_3` and an object of type `Plane_3` or `Triangle_3` by avoiding
    arithmetic filter failures.

### 2D Envelope

-   Env_default_diagram_1 is deprecated, Envelope_diagram_1 should
    be used instead.

### 3D Envelope

-   A new demo program called `L1_Voronoi_diagram_2` has been
    introduced. It demonstrates how 2D Voronoi diagrams of points under
    the L1 metric are constructed using lower envelopes.

### dD Kernel

-   Added functor `Compute_coordinate_d` to the `Kernel_d` concept.

### Geometric Object Generators

-   `CGAL::Random` uses `boost::rand48` instead of `std::rand`.
-   Added to `CGAL::Random` a way to generate random integers.
-   Added generators for dD points.

### Algebraic Foundations

-   `Algebraic_structure_traits` now provides an Inverse functor for
    Fields. There is also a new global function inverse.

### Bounding Volumes

-   dD Min sphere of spheres has a new traits class for the min sphere
    of points.

### Triangulated Surface Mesh Simplification

-   The priority queue internally used to prioritize edge
    simplifications is no longer a relaxed heap but a binomial heap.
    This fix guarantees that all edges satisfying a simplification
    criteria are removed (if possible).

### 3D Boolean Operations on Nef Polyhedra

-   Allow construction of a 3D nef polyhedron from a 3D polyhedron with normals.

### 2D Arrangements

-   Fixe a bug in the method insert_at_vertices of the `Arrangement_2`
    class.
-   Fixed several bugs in the traits class `Arr_Bezier_curve_traits_2`
    for arrangement of Bezier curves.

### 2D Minkowski Sums

-   A bug in the convolution method was fixed.
</div>
