---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.0.1 released"
description: "CGAL 4.0.1"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-download"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-4.0.1">Download CGAL-4.0.1</a>

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/Manual/4.0.1/doc_html/cgal_manual/packages.html">CGAL-4.0.1 documentation</a>

<p>This is a bug fix release. Apart various minor fixes in the documentation,
  the following has been changed since <a href="../../../../2012/03/12/cgal-40">CGAL 4.0</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### 2D Voronoi Diagram Adaptor (re-added)

-   The package *2D Voronoi Diagram Adaptor* was temporarily removed
    from the CGAL distribution because of license issues. That package
    is now back into CGAL.

### 2D and 3D Geometry Kernel

-   Fixed a bug in the `Segment_3-Triangle_3` intersection function in the
    case the segment is collinear with a triangle edge.
-   Fixed a bug in the `Projection_traits_.._3` class in the case a
    segment was parallel to the x-axis.

### Algebraic Kernel

-   Avoid the linking error "duplicate symbols" when two compilation
    units using the algebraic kernel are linked.

### 3D Boolean Operations on Nef Polygons Embedded on the Sphere

-   Fixed a memory leak due to the usage of an internal mechanism that has
    been replaced by `boost::any`. This also influences the packages 2D
    Boolean Operations on Nef Polygons, 3D Boolean Operations on Nef
    Polyhedra, Convex Decomposition of Polyhedra, and 3D Minkowski Sum
    of Polyhedra.

### 2D Arrangement

-   Fixed several memory leaks.

### 2D Mesh Generation

-   Fixed a compilation error in the header
    `<CGAL/Mesh_2/Do_not_refine_edges.h>` when g++ version 4.7 is used.

### Surface Mesh Generation and 3D Mesh Generation

-   Fixed an important bug in the `CGAL_ImageIO` library, that could lead
    to wrong result when meshing from a 3D image.
-   Fixed the compilation of the demo in `demo/Surface_mesher`, when Boost
    version 1.48 or 1.49 is used.

### Surface Mesh Parameterization

-   Fixed a memory leak.
-   Fixed a compatibility issue with Eigen-3.1 of `Eigen_solver_traits`.
    This fix also affects the usage of that class in the package
    *Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets*.
</div>
