---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.0 beta1"
description: "CGAL 4.0 beta1 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p>CGAL 4.0 offers the following improvements and new functionality:</p>

<h3>License Changes</h3>
<p>The whole CGAL-3.x series was released under a combination of LGPLv2 (for
  the foundations of CGAL), and QPL (for the high-level packages). QPL was
  the former license of the graphical toolkit Qt, but that license is not
  supported by any major free software project. Furthermore, the terms of
  the LGPLv2 license are ambiguous for a library of C++ templates, like
  CGAL.</p>

<p>The CGAL project, driven by the CGAL Editorial Board, has decided to
  change the license scheme of CGAL. We increased the major number
  of the CGAL version to '4' in order to reflect this license change.
  The CGAL-4.x series is released under:</p>
<ul>
  <li>LGPLv3+ (that is LGPL <em>"either version 3 of the License, or (at your
      option) any later version"</em>), for the foundations of CGAL, instead
    of LGPLv2,</li>
  <li>GPLv3+ for the high-level packages, instead of QPL.</li>
</ul>

<h3>General</h3>
<ul>
  <li>On Windows, CGAL libraries are now built by default as shared
    libraries (also called DLL). To run applications that use .dll files
    of CGAL, you must either copy the .dll files into the directory of
    the application, or add the path of the directory that contains those
    .dll files into the PATH environment variable.
  </li>
  <li>On Windows, the CMake scripts of CGAL now search for shared version
    of the Boost libraries. You must ensure that the .dll files of Boost are
    found by the dynamic linker.  You can, for example, add the path to
    the Boost .dll files to the PATH environment variable.
  </li>
  <li>On Windows, CMake version 2.8.6 or higher is now required.
  </li>
  <li>Eigen version 3.1 or later is now the recommended third party library to use
    in  <i>Planar Parameterization of Triangulated Surface Meshes</i>,
    <i>Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets</i>,
    <i>Approximation of Ridges and Umbilics on Triangulated Surface Meshes</i>, and
    <i>Estimation of Local Differential Properties of Point-Sampled Surfaces</i>
    packages. If you use Eigen you no longer need Taucs, Lapack or Blas to use those
    packages (and any other in CGAL).
  </li>
</ul>


<h3>Linear Cell Complex (new package)</h3>
<ul>
  <li>This package implements linear cell complexes, objects in
    d-dimension  with linear geometry. The combinatorial part of
    objects is described by a combinatorial map, representing all the
    cells of the object plus the incidence and adjacency relations
    between cells. Geometry is added to combinatorial maps simply by
    associating a point to each vertex of the map.  This data
    structure can be seen as the generalization in dD of the
    <code>Polyhedron_3</code>.</li>
</ul>

<h3> 2D Voronoi Diagram Adaptor (temporarily removed)</h3>
<ul>
  <li>  As the copyright holder of this package has not granted
    the right to switch from QPL to GPL, this package is
    removed from the distribution.

    Note that it is "only" an adapter, that is the functionality
    of point/segment/disk Voronoi diagram is offered through
    the Delaunay triangulation, segment Delaunay graph,
    and Apollonius graph.</li>
</ul>

<h3>AABB Tree</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Document constness of member functions of the <code>AABB_tree</code> class.</li>
  <li>The class <code>AABB_tree</code> is now guaranteed to be read-only thread-safe. As usual in CGAL,
    this small overhead introduced for thread-safety can be deactivated by defining <code>CGAL_HAS_NO_THREADS</code>.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Alpha Shapes</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add an extra template parameter to the class <code>Alpha_shape_2</code> that allows a certified construction using
    a traits class with exact predicates and inexact constructions.</li>
  <li>An object of type <code>Alpha_shape_2</code> can now be constructed from a triangulation.</li>

</ul>

<h3>3D Alpha Shapes</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add an extra template parameter to the class <code>Alpha_shape_3</code> that allows a certified construction using
    a traits class with exact predicates and inexact constructions.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Geometric Object Generators</h3>
<ul>
  <li> <code>Random_points_in_iso_box_d</code> (deprecated since 3.8) has been
    removed. Use <code>Random_points_in_cube_d</code> instead.
</ul>

<h3>Linear and Quadratic Programming Solver</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Minor bugfix.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Spatial Searching</h3>
<ul>
  <li>The const-correctness of this package have been worked out. The transition for users should be smooth in
    general, however adding few const in user code might be needed in some cases.
  </li>
  <li>The class <code>Kd_tree</code> is now guaranteed to be read-only thread-safe. As usual in CGAL,
    this small overhead introduced for thread-safety can be deactivated by defining <code>CGAL_HAS_NO_THREADS</code>.</li>
  <li>Bug-fix in <code>Orthogonal_incremental_neighbor_search</code> and <code>Incremental_neighbor_search</code> classes. Several calls to <code>begin()</code>
    now allow to make several nearest neighbor search queries independently.</li>
</ul>

<h3>STL Extension</h3>
<ul>
  <li><code>CGAL::copy_n</code> is now deprecated for <code>CGAL::cpp0x::copy_n</code> which uses <code>std::copy_n</code>, if available on the platform.</li>
  <li><code>CGAL::successor</code> and <code>CGAL::predecessor</code> are now deprecated for <code>CGAL::cpp0x::next</code> and <code>CGAL::cpp0x::prev</code>. These functions
    use the standard versions if available on the platform. Otherwise, <code>boost::next</code> and <code>boost::prior</code> are used.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Triangulation_2</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Fix a thread-safety issue in <code>Delaunay_triangulation_2</code> remove functions.  As usual in CGAL,
    the small overhead introduced for thread-safety can be deactivated by defining <code>CGAL_HAS_NO_THREADS</code>.</li>
  <li> Add extraction operator for the class <code>Constrained_triangulation_2</code> (and thus to all inheriting classes).</li>
</ul>
