---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.1 beta1 released"
description: "CGAL 4.1 beta1"
category:
tags: ["beta-release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-4.1-beta1">Download CGAL-4.1-beta1</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/Manual/4.1/doc_html/cgal_manual/packages.html">CGAL-4.1-beta1 documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 4.1 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2012/07/04/cgal-402">CGAL 4.0.2</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### Installation

-   Additional supported platforms:
    -   The Apple Clang compiler versions 3.1 and 3.2 are now supported
        on Mac OS X.
-   Improved configuration for essential and optional external third
    party software
-   Added more general script to create CMakeLists.txt files:
    `cgal_create_CMakeLists`
-   Availability tests for C++11 features are now performed with the
    help of [Boost.Config](http://www.boost.org/libs/config). A Boost
    version of 1.40.0 or higher is needed to use C++11 features.

### 2D Arrangement

-   Improved the implementation of the incremental randomized
    trapezoidal decomposition point-location strategy. The new
    implementation enables point location in unbounded arrangements. It
    constructs a search structure of guaranteed linear size with
    guaranteed logarithmic query time.

### 2D Convex Hulls and Extreme Points

-   Speed up the preprocessing stage of the Akl-Toussaint implementation
    (used by the free function `convex_hull_2` when forward iterators
    are provided as input).

### Combinatorial Maps

-   Minor bugfix; replace some functors by methods.

### Linear Cell Complex

-   Improved the demo: add a widget showing all the volumes and an
    operation to create a Menger sponge.

### Kernels

-   All Kernel functors now support the `result_of` protocol.

### STL_Extensions for CGAL

-   The namespace `cpp0x` has been renamed `cpp11`. The old name is
    still available for backward compatibility.
</div>
