---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.1"
description: "CGAL 4.1 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<h3>Installation</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Additional supported platforms:
    <ul>
      <li>The Apple Clang compiler versions 3.1 and 3.2 are now supported on
        Mac OS X.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Improved configuration for essential and optional external third party software</li>
  <li>Added more general script to create CMakeLists.txt files: <tt>cgal_create_CMakeLists</tt></li>
  <li>Availability tests for C++11 features are now performed with the help of <a href="http://www.boost.org/libs/config">Boost.Config</a>. A Boost version of 1.40.0 or higher is needed to use C++11 features.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Arrangement</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Improved the implementation of the incremental randomized
    trapezoidal decomposition point-location strategy. The new
    implementation enables point location in unbounded arrangements. It
    constructs a search structure of guaranteed linear size with
    guaranteed logarithmic query time.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Convex Hulls and Extreme Points </h3>
<ul>
  <li>Speed up the preprocessing stage of the Akl-Toussaint implementation (used by the free function <code>convex_hull_2</code> when forward iterators are provided as input).</li>
</ul>

<h3>Combinatorial Maps</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Minor bugfix; replace some functors by methods.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Linear Cell Complex</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Improve the demo: add a widget showing all the volumes and an operation to create a Menger sponge.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Kernels</h3>
<ul>
  <li>All Kernel functors now support the result_of protocol.</li>
</ul>

<h3>STL_Extensions for CGAL</h3>
<ul>
  <li>The namespace <code>cpp0x</code> has been renamed <code>cpp11</code>. The old name is still available for backward compatibility.</li>
</ul>
