---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.0 released"
description: "CGAL 4.0"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-download"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-4.0">Download CGAL-4.0</a>

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/Manual/4.0/doc_html/cgal_manual/packages.html">CGAL-4.0 documentation</a>

<h3>License Changes</h3>
<p>The whole CGAL-3.x series was released under a combination of LGPLv2 (for
  the foundations of CGAL), and QPL (for the high-level packages). QPL was
  the former license of the graphical toolkit Qt, but that license is not
  supported by any major free software project. Furthermore, the terms of
  the LGPLv2 license are ambiguous for a library of C++ templates, like
  CGAL.</p>

<p>The CGAL project, driven by the CGAL Editorial Board, has decided to
  change the license scheme of CGAL. We increased the major number
  of the CGAL version to '4' in order to reflect this license change.
  The CGAL-4.x series is released under:</p>
<ul>
  <li>LGPLv3+ (that is LGPL <em>"either version 3 of the License, or (at your
      option) any later version"</em>), for the foundations of CGAL, instead
    of LGPLv2,</li>
  <li>GPLv3+ for the high-level packages, instead of QPL.</li>
</ul>

<p>CGAL 4.0 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2011/09/27/cgal-39">CGAL 3.9</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### General

-   On Windows, CGAL libraries are now built by default as shared
    libraries (also called DLL). To run applications that use .dll files
    of CGAL, you must either copy the .dll files into the directory of
    the application, or add the path of the directory that contains
    those .dll files into the PATH environment variable.
-   On Windows, the CMake scripts of CGAL now search for shared version
    of the Boost libraries. You must ensure that the .dll files of Boost
    are found by the dynamic linker. You can, for example, add the path
    to the Boost .dll files to the PATH environment variable.
-   On Windows, CMake version 2.8.6 or higher is now required.
-   Eigen version 3.1 or later is now the recommended third party
    library to use in *Planar Parameterization of Triangulated Surface
    Meshes*, *Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets*, *Approximation of
    Ridges and Umbilics on Triangulated Surface Meshes*, and *Estimation
    of Local Differential Properties of Point-Sampled Surfaces*
    packages. If you use Eigen you no longer need Taucs, Lapack or Blas
    to use those packages (and any other in CGAL).

### Linear Cell Complex (new package)

-   This package implements linear cell complexes, objects in
    d-dimension with linear geometry. The combinatorial part of objects
    is described by a combinatorial map, representing all the cells of
    the object plus the incidence and adjacency relations between cells.
    Geometry is added to combinatorial maps simply by associating a
    point to each vertex of the map. This data structure can be seen as
    the generalization in dD of the `Polyhedron_3`.

### 2D Voronoi Diagram Adaptor (temporarily removed)

-   As the copyright holder of this package has not granted the right to
    switch from QPL to GPL, this package is removed from the
    distribution. Note that it is "only" an adapter, that is the
    functionality of point/segment/disk Voronoi diagram is offered
    through the Delaunay triangulation, segment Delaunay graph, and
    Apollonius graph.

### AABB Tree

-   Documented the constness of member functions of the `AABB_tree` class.
-   The class `AABB_tree` is now guaranteed to be read-only thread-safe.
    As usual in CGAL, this small overhead introduced for thread-safety
    can be deactivated by defining `CGAL_HAS_NO_THREADS`.

### 2D Alpha Shapes

-   Added an extra template parameter to the class `Alpha_shape_2` that
    allows a certified construction using a traits class with exact
    predicates and inexact constructions.
-   An object of type `Alpha_shape_2` can now be constructed from a
    triangulation.

### 3D Alpha Shapes

-   Added an extra template parameter to the class `Alpha_shape_3` that
    allows a certified construction using a traits class with exact
    predicates and inexact constructions.

### Geometric Object Generators

-   `Random_points_in_iso_box_d` (deprecated since 3.8) has been
    removed. Use `Random_points_in_cube_d` instead.

### Linear and Quadratic Programming Solver

-   Minor bugfix.

### Spatial Searching

-   The const-correctness of this package have been worked out. The
    transition for users should be smooth in general, however adding few
    const in user code might be needed in some cases.
-   The class `Kd_tree` is now guaranteed to be read-only thread-safe.
    As usual in CGAL, this small overhead introduced for thread-safety
    can be deactivated by defining `CGAL_HAS_NO_THREADS`.
-   Bug-fix in `Orthogonal_incremental_neighbor_search` and
    `Incremental_neighbor_search` classes. Several calls to `begin()`
    now allow to make several nearest neighbor search queries
    independently.

### STL Extension

-   `CGAL::copy_n` is now deprecated for `CGAL::cpp0x::copy_n` which
    uses `std::copy_n`, if available on the platform.
-   `CGAL::successor` and `CGAL::predecessor` are now deprecated for
    `CGAL::cpp0x::next` and `CGAL::cpp0x::prev`. These functions use the
    standard versions if available on the platform. Otherwise,
    `boost::next` and `boost::prior` are used.

### Triangulation_2

-   Fixed a thread-safety issue in `Delaunay_triangulation_2` remove
    functions. As usual in CGAL, the small overhead introduced for
    thread-safety can be deactivated by defining `CGAL_HAS_NO_THREADS`.
-   Add extraction operator for the class `Constrained_triangulation_2`
    (and thus to all inheriting classes).
</div>
