---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.3"
description: "CGAL 4.3 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<h3>The CGAL Manual</h3>
<ul>
  <li>The documentation of CGAL is now generated with Doxygen.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Periodic Triangulations (new package)</h3>
<ul>
  <li> This package allows to build and handle triangulations of point
    sets in the two dimensional flat torus. Triangulations are built
    incrementally and can be modified by insertion or removal of
    vertices. They offer point location facilities.  The package provides
    Delaunay triangulations and offers nearest neighbor queries and
    primitives to build the dual Voronoi diagrams.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>API Changes</h3>
<h4>2D and 3D Geometry Kernel </h4>
<ul>
  <li> The intersection functions and functors used to return
    a <code>CGAL::Object</code> in order to deal with the different
    possible return types. However, depending on the arguments it is
    possible to reduce the possible return types to a small set. For
    this reason and to take advantage of the type safety, we decided
    to use <code>boost::variant</code> instead
    of <code>CGAL::Object</code>.  The <code>result_of</code>
    protocol is now even more useful to determine the return type of
    the intersection functions and functors. The change should be
    relatively transparent to the user thanks to the implicit
    constructor added to <code>CGAL::Object</code>. However, it is
    recommended to upgrade your code.  The previous behavior can be
    restored by defining the
    macro <code>CGAL_INTERSECTION_VERSION</code> to 1.
  </li>
</ul>
<h4>2D Arrangements</h4>
<ul>
  <li> The type of the result of point location queries changed to
    <code>boost::variant</code> (from <code>CGAL::Object</code>).
    For convenience, the previous behavior can be restored by defining
    the macro <code>CGAL_ARR_POINT_LOCATION_VERSION</code> to 1.</li>
  <li> Introduced an optimization for operations on large and dense
    arrangements.
  </li>
</ul>
<h4>3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation</h4>
<ul>
  <li>Following the intersection API
    change, <code>Object_and_primitive_id</code> has been replaced by
    a template class
    <code>Intersection_and_primitive_id&lt;Query&gt;</code> to determine
    the type depending on the query object type.
  </li>
</ul>
<h4>CGAL and Boost Property Maps</h4>
<ul>
  <li>The <code>key_type</code> of the property maps provided by CGAL
    used to be an iterator. In order to be more easily re-used,
    the <code>key_type</code> has been changed to be
    the <code>value_type</code> of the iterator.  The packages that
    have been updated to match these changes are <b>Point Set
      Processing</b> and <b>Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets</b>.
    However, for most users this change should be transparent if the
    default property maps were used.  For convenience, the former
    behavior can be enabled by defining the
    macro <code>CGAL_USE_PROPERTY_MAPS_API_V1</code>.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>Algebraic Foundations</h3>
<ul>
  <li>For convenience, add an overload of <code>make_rational()</code>
    taking a pair of numbers.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D and 3D Geometry Kernel </h3>
<ul>
  <li>A <code>Iso_rectangle_2</code> can now be constructed from
    a <code>Bbox_2</code> and an <code>Iso_cuboid_3</code> from
    a <code>Bbox_3</code>. </li>
  <li> The implementation of <code>CGAL::Object</code> has been updated
    and now uses <code>boost::shared_ptr</code>
    and <code>boost::any</code>. This implementation is faster.
  </li>
  <li>Add to <code>Bbox_2</code> and <code>Bbox_3</code>
    a <code>+=</code> operator as well as free functions to get the
    bounding box of a range of geometric objects.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>Combinatorial Maps</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Two bug fixes: do not use the 2 least significant bits for cell
    attribute without dart support; share the mark when copying a
    CMap_cell_iterator.</li>
  <li>Add a constructor taking a given combinatorial map as argument,
    possibly with different dimension and/or different attributes. This
    allows to transform a combinatorial map.</li>
  <li>Add operator= and swap method.</li>
  <li>Add dynamic onmerge/onsplit functions that can be associated
    dynamically to i-attributes and which are automatically called when
    i-cells are split/merged.</li>
  <li>Add a function allowing to reverse the orientation of a
    combinatorial map, and another one to reverse one connected component
    of a combinatorial map.</li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Boolean Operations on Nef Polyhedra</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Bug-fix in IO when using <code>Lazy_exact_nt</code> as number type
    or <code>Exact_predicates_exact_constructions_kernel</code> as
    kernel.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Triangulations</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Extend the concept <code>TriangulationDataStructure_2</code> to
    require a more general <code>copy_tds</code> function that allows a
    copy between TDS of different types. The CGAL model has been
    updated.</li>
  <li>Add a way to efficiently insert a range of points with information
    into the 2D constrained Delaunay triangulations.</li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Triangulations</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Extend the concept <code>TriangulationDataStructure_3</code> to
    require a more general <code>copy_tds</code> function that allows a
    copy between TDS of different types. The CGAL model has been
    updated.</li>
  <li>Add an advanced function to set the infinite vertex of the
    triangulation for low level operations</li>
  <li>Fix a bug in the function inserting a range of points with info
    when the <code>Fast_location</code> tag is used</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Segment Delaunay Graph</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add functions <code>insert_points</code>
    and <code>insert_segments</code> to insert a range of points and
    segments. These functions uses the spatial sorting in order to speed
    up the time needed for the insertion. The
    function <code>insert(Input_iterator first, Input_iterator beyond,
      Tag_true)</code> has been updated to dispatch the input when possible
    to these functions.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Apollonius Graphs</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Modified insertion algorithm so that the code can handle
    pseudo-circles as well.</li>
  <li>Updated implementation of the vertex conflict predicate by a
    faster version.</li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Mesh Generation</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Speed-up <code>Mesh_3</code> and in particular the global
    optimizers (Lloyd and ODT) by introducing a
    parameter <code>do_freeze</code> to prevent from moving vertices
    which would move of very small displacements.</li>
  <li> Introduce new data structures and options for speed-up and
    compacity. Note that <code>Compact_mesh_cell_base_3</code> and
    <code>Mesh_vertex_base_3</code> are now our favoured implementations
    of the concepts MeshCellBase_3 and MeshVertexBase_3.
  </li>
  <li>Introduce a new constructor
    for <code>Polyhedral_mesh_domain_3</code> that takes a bounding
    polyhedron to be meshed along with a polyhedral surface entirely
    included in it.  This allows the user to mesh a polyhedral domain
    with internal surface(s) which can be non-watertight and even
    non-manifold.
  </li>
  <li> Several documentation bug fixes.</li>
  <li> Provide the ability to plug in custom cell_base/vertex_base
    classes into the Mesh_triangulation_3 class. </li>
</ul>

<h3>Triangulated Surface Mesh Simplification</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Fix a segmentation fault that was happening when some edges of length 0
    were in the input mesh.</li>
</ul>
<h3>3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Following the intersection API
    change, <code>Object_and_primitive_id</code> has been replaced by a
    template class
    <code>Intersection_and_primitive_id&lt;Query&gt;</code> to determine
    the type depending on the query object type.
  </li>
  <li>Introduce the
    class <code>AABB_halfedge_graph_segment_primitive</code>, which
    replaces the class <code>AABB_polyhedron_segment_primitive</code>
    (which is now deprecated).  The new class is more general and can be
    used with any model of <code>HalfedgeGraph</code>.</li>
  <li>Introduce the class <code>AABB_face_graph_triangle_primitive</code>
    which replaces the
    class <code>AABB_polyhedron_triangle_primitive</code> (which is now
    deprecated).</li>
  <li>Document the classes <code>AABB_segment_primitive</code>
    and <code>AABB_triangle_primitive</code> that were already used in
    some examples.</li>
  <li>Add a generic primitive class <code>AABB_primitive</code> that
    allows to define a primitive type by defining only two property
    maps.</li>
  <li>Introduce a new concept of
    primitive <code>AABBPrimitiveWithSharedData</code>. It allows to have
    some data shared between the primitives stored in
    a <code>AABB_tree</code>.  With this you can, for example have a
    primitive wrapping an integer which refers to the position of a
    geometric object in a <code>std::vector</code>.  Only one reference
    to this vector will be stored in the traits of the tree.  The
    concept <code>AABBTraits</code>, its model <code>AABB_traits</code>
    and the class <code>AABB_tree</code> have been updated accordingly.
    However, everything is backward compatible.</li>
  <li> Fix a memory leak in the destructor of the
    class <code>AABB-tree</code></li>
</ul>

<h3>STL Extensions for CGAL</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add to <code>Dispatch_output_iterator</code>
    and <code>Dispatch_or_drop_output_iterator</code> an operator to
    accept and dispatch a tuple of values.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>Concurrency in CGAL</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add a <code>FindTBB</code> CMake module so that one can easily link
    with TBB to write shared-memory parallel code.</li>
  <li>Introduce two new tags: Sequential_tag and Parallel_tag</li>
</ul>
