---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.2 beta1 released"
description: "CGAL 4.2 beta1"
category:
tags: ["beta-release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-4.2-beta1">Download CGAL-4.2-beta1</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/4.2/Manual/index.html">CGAL-4.2-beta1 documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 4.2 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2012/10/24/cgal-41">CGAL 4.1</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### Installation

-   Additional supported platforms:
    -   The Microsoft Windows Visual C++ compiler 2012 (VC11) is now
        supported.
-   With Microsoft Visual C++ (all supported versions), the compiler
    flags `/bigobj` and `/wd4503` are added by CGAL CMake scripts.
-   This is the last release whose "`UseCGAL.cmake`" file (if using CGAL
    in a CMake build environment) contains the line
    ```
          link_libraries(${CGAL_LIBRARIES_DIR} ${CGAL_3RD_PARTY_LIBRARIES_DIRS})
    ```
    as this is a deprecated CMake command. The correct way to link with
    CGAL's libraries (as for required 3rd party libraries) is to use
    '`target_link_libraries`' which specifies for each build target
    which libraries should be linked. The following serves as example:
    ```
          find_package(CGAL)
          include(${CGAL_USE_FILE})
          add_executable(myexe main.cpp)
          target_link_libraries(myexe ${CGAL_LIBRARIES}
                                      ${CGAL_3RD_PARTY_LIBRARIES})
    ```
    We also expect further changes in CGAL's CMake setup (change of
    variable names, consistency of filename and output, removing
    essential libraries, building executables, removal of
    '`${CGAL_3RD_PARTY_LIBRARIES}`').

### 2D Arrangements

-   Enhanced the 2D-arrangements demonstration program and ported it to
    Qt4. The new demonstration program makes use of the CGAL Graphics
    View framework, in which the 2D primitives are individually
    represented as objects in a scene. (The implementations of several
    demos in CGAL already make use of this framework.) This project was
    carried out as part of the <a href="../../../../gsoc/2012.html">
    2012 Google Summer of Code program</a>.
-   Fixed a bug in the Walk-Along-A-Line point location strategy for
    arrangements induced by unbounded curves.

### 2D Circular Geometry Kernel

-   Fixed the intersection type computed when intersecting two identical
    circles.
-   Forward correctly the result type of the linear kernel functors

### 2D Triangulations

-   Added mechanism to avoid call stack overflow in
    `Delaunay_triangulation_2` and
    `Constrained_Delaunay_triangulation_2`.
-   Added a constructor for `Regular_triangulation_2` and
    `Delaunay_triangulation_2` from a range of points or a range of
    points with info.

### 2D Voronoi Diagram Adaptor

-   Bug-fix: Added `ccb()` method in face type as documented.

### 3D Minkowski Sum of Polyhedra

-   Fixed a memory leak.

### 3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation

-   Updated requirements of the concepts `AABBTraits` and
    `AABBGeomTraits` to match the implementation of the package.

### Generator

-   Addition of the `Combination_enumerator`.

### STL Extensions

-   Introduction of `CGAL::cpp11::result_of` as an alias to the tr1
    implementation from boost of the `result_of` mechanism. When all
    compilers supported by CGAL will have a Standard compliant
    implemention of the C++11 `decltype` feature, it will become an
    alias to `std::result_of`.

### Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets

-   Performance improvements and addition of an option to better
    reconstruct undersampled zones. The poisson reconstruction plugin of
    the Polyhedron demo has an option to switch it on.
</div>
