---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.2"
description: "CGAL 4.2 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<h3>Installation</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Additional supported platforms:
    <ul>
      <li>The Microsoft Windows Visual C++ compiler 2012 (VC11) is now
        supported.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>With Microsoft Visual C++ (all supported versions), the compiler
    flags <code>/bigobj</code> and <code>/wd4503</code> are added by CGAL
    CMake scripts.
  </li>
  <li>This is the last release whose "<tt>UseCGAL.cmake</tt>" file (if
    using CGAL in a CMake build environment) contains the line
    <pre>
      link_libraries(${CGAL_LIBRARIES_DIR} ${CGAL_3RD_PARTY_LIBRARIES_DIRS})
    </pre>
    as this is a deprecated CMake command. The correct way to link with
    CGAL's libraries (as for required 3rd party libraries) is to use
    '<code>target_link_libraries</code>' which specifies for each build
    target which libraries should be linked. The following serves as
    example:
    <pre>
      find_package(CGAL)
      include(${CGAL_USE_FILE})
      add_executable(myexe main.cpp)
      target_link_libraries(myexe ${CGAL_LIBRARIES}
      ${CGAL_3RD_PARTY_LIBRARIES})
    </pre>
    We also expect further changes in CGAL's CMake setup (change of
    variable names, consistency of filename and output, removing
    essential libraries, building executables, removal of
    '<code>${CGAL_3RD_PARTY_LIBRARIES}</code>').
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Arrangements</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Enhanced the 2D-arrangements demonstration program and ported it
    to Qt4. The new demonstration program makes use of the CGAL Graphics
    View framework, in which the 2D primitives are individually
    represented as objects in a scene. (The implementations of several
    demos in CGAL already make use of this framework.) This project was
    carried out as part of the 2012 Google Summer of Code program.</li>
  <li>Fixed a bug in the Walk-Along-A-Line point location strategy for
    arrangements induced by unbounded curves.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Circular Geometry Kernel</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Fix the intersection type computed when intersecting two identical circles.</li>
  <li>Forward correctly the result type of the linear kernel functors</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Triangulations</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Add mechanism to avoid call stack overflow
    in <code>Delaunay_triangulation_2</code>
    and <code>Constrained_Delaunay_triangulation_2</code>.
  <li> Add a constructor for <code>Regular_triangulation_2</code>
    and <code>Delaunay_triangulation_2</code> from a range of points or a
    range of points with info.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Voronoi Diagram Adaptor</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Bug-fix: Add ccb() method in face type as documented.</li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Minkowski Sum of Polyhedra</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Fix a memory leak.</li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Update requirements of the concepts <code>AABBTraits</code>
    and <code>AABBGeomTraits</code> to match the implementation of the
    package.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Generator</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Addition of the <code>Combination_enumerator</code></li>
</ul>

<h3>STL Extensions</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Introduction of <code>CGAL::cpp11::result_of</code> as an alias to
    the tr1 implementation from boost of the <code>result_of</code>
    mechanism.  When all compilers supported by CGAL will have a Standard
    compliant implemention of the C++11 <code>decltype</code> feature, it
    will become an alias to
    <code>std::result_of</code>.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Performance improvements and addition of an option to better
    reconstruct undersampled zones. The poisson reconstruction plugin
    of the Polyhedron demo has an option to switch it on.</li>
</ul>
