---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.4"
description: "CGAL 4.4 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<h3>Installation</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Additional supported platforms:
    <ul>
      <li>The Apple Clang compiler version 5.0 is now supported on
        OS X Mavericks.</li>
      <li>The Microsoft Windows Visual C++ compiler 2013 (VC12) is now
        supported.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<h3>Triangulated Surface Mesh Segmentation (new package)</h3>
<ul>
  <li> This package implements the segmentation of triangulated surface meshes
    based on the Shape Diameter Function (SDF). In addition, it also provides
    functions to generate segmentations based on a user defined alternative
    to the SDF.
  </li>
</ul>


<h3>Number Types</h3>
<ul>
  <li> A new class <code>CGAL::Mpzf</code> is introduced on some platforms
    for exact ring operations. It is used to improve the speed of the
    evaluation of predicates in degenerate situations.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D and 3D Geometry Kernel </h3>
<ul>
  <li> Fix a bug introduced in CGAL 4.3 when computing the intersection
    of two 3D triangles.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Polygon Partitioning</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Bug fix to make the partition algorithms working with a Lazy kernel such as
    <code>Exact_predicates_exact_constructions_kernel</code>.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Regularized Boolean Set-Operations</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Fix two memory leaks in
    <code>CGAL::General_polygon_set_2</code>.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>Combinatorial Maps and Linear Cell Complex</h3>
<ul>
  <li> <code>null_dart_handle</code> is no longer a static data member in
    the <code>CombinatorialMap</code> concept. This implies to move the
    following methods of <code>Dart</code> concept
    into <code>CombinatorialMap</code>
    concept: <code>is_free</code>, <code>highest_nonfree_dimension</code>,
    <code>opposite</code> and <code>other_extremity</code>. We also
    transform the static methods <code>vertex_attribute</code>
    and <code>point</code> of <code>Linear_cell_complex</code> class into
    non static methods. You can define the CGAL_CMAP_DEPRECATED macro to
    keep the old behavior.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Arrangements</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Revise the API of <b>polylines</b>. In particular,
    <i>construction</i> is now done using functors
    and <i>iteration</i> is possible only on the segments of a
    polyline.
  </li>
  <li>Fix a bug in the <i>Landmark</i> point-location strategy.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Snap Rounding</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Fix a memory leak</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Triangulations</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add different overloads of the function <code>insert_constraints</code>
    that inserts a range of points and segments, or a range of segments.
    These functions uses the spatial sorting in order to speed
    up the time needed for the insertion.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Periodic Triangulations</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add a method to locate point with inexact predicates.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Alpha Shapes</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Add member functions in <code>CGAL::Alpha_shape_3</code> to give
    access to the alpha status of edges and facets
    (<code>get_alpha_status())</code>.</li>
  <li> Add another filtration method
    (<code>filtration_with_alpha_values()</code>) that reports the
    alpha value at which each face appears in the filtration.</li>
</ul>

<h3>3D Mesh Generation</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Fix the access to functions <code>number_of_facets</code>
    and <code>number_of_cells</code> in
    <code>Mesh_complex_3_in_triangulation_3</code>.
  </li>
  <li>Change the internal API of the sliver perturber, to make possible
    for developers to optimize another criterion than the (default)
    minimal dihedral angle.  Developers can also define a new
    perturbation vector (for angles we had gradient of squared
    circumradius, gradient of volume, gradient of minimal dihedral
    angle, and random) which is better suitable to optimize their
    criterion.
  </li>
  <li>Improve the use of cache values in <code>Mesh_cell_base_3</code> to
    (re)compute circumcenters and sliver criterion values only when
    needed.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>Triangulated Surface Mesh Simplification</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Fix a bug in the way edges can be marked as non-removable by adding
    a named-parameter <code>edge_is_constrained_map</code> to the function
    <code>edge_collapse</code></li>
</ul>

<h3>dD Spatial Searching</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Fix a documentation bug: The property map passed as template
    parameter to the classes
    <code>Search_traits_adapter</code> and <code>Distance_adapter</code>
    must be a lvalue property map. To avoid incorrect usage, a static
    assertion has been added in the CGAL code to prevent the user from
    instantiating these classes with an incorrect property map type.</li>
</ul>

<h3>CGAL ipelets</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Better description of the demo ipelets in the user manual     </li>
  <li> New ipelet for pencils of circles</li>
  <li> New ipelet for hyperbolic geometry in Poincaré model</li>
  <li> The generator ipelet now generates point in a selected zone</li>
  <li> Hilbert sort ipelet implements two policies</li>
</ul>
