---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.5 beta1 released"
description: "CGAL 4.5 beta1"
category:
tags: ["beta-release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-4.5-beta1">Download CGAL-4.5-beta1</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/4.5/Manual/index.html">CGAL-4.5-beta1 documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 4.5 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2014/04/04/cgal-44">CGAL 4.4</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### Installation

-   Changes in the set of supported platforms:
    -   The Microsoft Windows Visual C++ compiler 2008 (VC9) is no
        longer supported since CGAL-4.5.
-   Since CGAL version 4.0, Eigen was the recommended third-party
    library to use with *Planar Parameterization of Triangulated Surface
    Meshes*, *Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets*, *Approximation of
    Ridges and Umbilics on Triangulated Surface Meshes*, and *Estimation
    of Local Differential Properties of Point-Sampled Surfaces*
    packages. From CGAL version 4.5, Taucs, Blas and Lapack are no
    longer supported.
-   CGAL is now compatible with the new CMake version 3.0.

### Triangulated Surface Mesh Deformation (new package)

-   This package allows to deform a triangulated surface mesh under
    positional constraints of some of its vertices without requiring any
    additional structure other than the surface mesh itself. The methods
    provided implements an as-rigid-as-possible deformation. Note that
    the main class name has changed between the 4.5-beta1 and the 4.5
    releases to better match the CGAL naming conventions (from
    `CGAL::Deform_mesh` to `CGAL::Surface_mesh_deformation`).

### CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (major changes)

-   Cleanup of the `HalfedgeGraph` concept. In particular:
    -   Introduction of the notion of `halfedge_descriptor` in the
        specialization of the class `boost::graph_traits`.
    -   Deprecation of `halfedge_graph_traits`.
    -   A model of `HalfedgeGraph` is considered as an undirected graph.
        Thus any call to `edges()` should be replaced by `halfedges()`
        and `num_edges()` now returns the number of (undirected) edges.
    -   **Breaking change:** `is_border_edge` and `is_border_halfedge`
        properties are removed. The free functions `is_border()` and
        `is_border_edge()` should be used instead.
    -   Renaming of `HalfedgeGraph` specific free functions.
-   Introduction of the `FaceGraph` concept.
-   Adaptation of the package *Triangulated Surface Mesh Simplification*
    and of the class `AABB_halfedge_graph_segment_primitive` from the
    package *3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation* to the API
    change.
-   Update of the package *Triangulated Surface Mesh Segmentation* and
    of the class `AABB_face_graph_triangle_primitive` from the package
    *3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation* to accept model of
    the newly introduced concepts.
-   Offer *Euler* operations as free functions for models of the graph
    concepts provided by CGAL.
-   Specialization of `boost::graph_traits` for
    `OpenMesh::PolyMesh_ArrayKernelT` as proof of concept. A
    `OpenMesh::PolyMesh_ArrayKernelT` becomes a model of the
    aforementioned concepts when including
    `CGAL/boost/graph/graph_traits_PolyMesh_ArrayKernelT.h`.

### dD Geometry Kernel

-   A new model `Epick_d` of the `Kernel_d` concept is introduced. It
    provides better performance through arithmetic filtering and
    specializations for fixed dimensions. It may not work with compilers
    as old as gcc-4.2, but was tested with gcc-4.4.

### 3D Convex Hulls

-   Cleaned up the documentation of the concepts

### 2D Arrangements

-   Fixed a bug in removing an unbounded curve (e.g., a ray) from an
    arrangement induced by unbounded curves.

### 2D Snap Rounding

-   Replaced use of private `kd_tree` with CGAL's official `Kd_tree`
    from `Spatial_searching` package; results in a small performance
    gain. Removed the private `kd_tree` package.


### 3D Triangulations

-   Added an experimental parallel version of the Delaunay triangulation
    and the regular triangulation algorithms, which allows parallel
    insertion and removal of point ranges.

### 3D Mesh Generation

-   Added a new constructor for the class `Labeled_mesh_domain_3` which
    takes an `Iso_cuboid_3`.
-   Added a new labeling function wrapper for meshing multi-domain.
-   The meshing functionality in the Qt demos in `demo/Polyhedron/` and
    `demo/Mesh_3/` can now use the handling of 1d-features, that exists
    in CGAL since version 3.8.
-   Added an experimental parallel version of the 3D mesh refinement and
    mesh optimization methods.
-   Added caching of circumcenters to
    <code>Regular_triangulation_cell_base_3</code>. The cache value is
    computed when <code>cell->circumcenter()</code>
    or <code>rt.dual(cell)</code> functions are called.

### Point Set Processing and Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets

-   The former demo has been removed and is fully merge in the
    Polyhedron demo.

### Point Set Processing

-   Workaround a bug in dijsktra shortest path of boost 1.54 by shipping
    and using the boost header from the 1.55 release. This header will
    be used only if you are using the version 1.54 of boost.

### Triangulated Surface Mesh Simplification

-   **Breaking change:** Due to the cleanup of the concepts of the
    package *CGAL and the Boost Graph Library*, the named parameter
    `edge_is_border_map` has been removed, and the named parameter
    `edge_is_constrained_map` now expects a property map with an edge
    descriptor as key type (vs. halfedge descriptor before).
-   Added some optimization in the code making the implementation faster
    (depending on the cost and the placement chosen). However, for an
    edge which collapse is not topologically valid, the vector of
    vertices of the link provided by its profile might contains
    duplicates, thus also breaking the orientation guarantee in the
    vector. This must not be a problem for users as the edge is not
    collapsible anyway but if it is a absolute requirement for user
    defined cost/placement, defining the macro
    `CGAL_SMS_EDGE_PROFILE_ALWAYS_NEED_UNIQUE_VERTEX_IN_LINK` will
    restore the former behavior.

### dD Spatial Searching

-   Added methods `reserve(size_t size)` and `size_t       capacity()`
    to class `Kd_tree` to allocate memory to store `size` points and to
    report that number (STL compliance).

### STL Extensions for CGAL

-   Added `Compact_container::operator[]`, allowing a direct access to the
    ith element of a compact container.
-   Added `Concurrent_compact_container`, a compact container which allows
    concurrent insertion and removal.
</div>
