---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.5"
description: "CGAL 4.5 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<!-- Installation (and general changes) -->
<h3>Installation</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Changes in the set of supported platforms:
    <ul>
      <li>The Microsoft Windows Visual C++ compiler 2008 (VC9) is no
        longer supported since CGAL-4.5.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Since CGAL version 4.0, Eigen was the recommended third-party
    library to use with <i>Planar Parameterization of Triangulated
      Surface Meshes</i>, <i>Surface Reconstruction from Point
      Sets</i>, <i>Approximation of Ridges and Umbilics on Triangulated
      Surface Meshes</i>, and <i>Estimation of Local Differential
      Properties of Point-Sampled Surfaces</i> packages. From CGAL
    version 4.5, Taucs, Blas and Lapack are no longer supported.
  </li>
  <li>CGAL is now compatible with the new CMake version 3.0.</li>
</ul>

<!-- New packages -->
<h3>Triangulated Surface Mesh Deformation (new package)</h3>
<ul>
  <li> This package allows to deform a triangulated surface mesh
    under positional constraints of some of its vertices without
    requiring any additional structure other than the surface mesh itself.
    The methods provided implements an as-rigid-as-possible deformation.
    Note that the main class name has changed between the 4.5-beta1 and the 4.5
    releases to better match the CGAL naming conventions
    (from <code>CGAL::Deform_mesh</code> to <code>CGAL::Surface_mesh_deformation</code>).
  </li>
</ul>

<!-- Major and breaking changes -->
<h3>CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (major changes)</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Cleanup of the <code>HalfedgeGraph</code> concept. In particular:
    <ul>
      <li>Introduction of the notion of <code>halfedge_descriptor</code> in
        the specialization of the
        class <code>boost::graph_traits</code>.</li>
      <li>Deprecation of <code>halfedge_graph_traits</code>.</li>
      <li>A model of <code>HalfedgeGraph</code> is considered as an
        undirected graph. Thus any call to <code>edges()</code> should be
        replaced by <code>halfedges()</code> and <code>num_edges()</code>
        now returns the number of (undirected) edges.</li>
      <li><b>Breaking change:</b> <code>is_border_edge</code>
        and <code>is_border_halfedge</code> properties are removed.  The
        free functions <code>is_border()</code>
        and <code>is_border_edge()</code> should be used instead.</li>
      <li>Renaming of <code>HalfedgeGraph</code> specific free
        functions.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Introduction of the <code>FaceGraph</code> concept.</li>
  <li>Adaptation of the package <em>Triangulated Surface Mesh
      Simplification</em> and of the
    class <code>AABB_halfedge_graph_segment_primitive</code> from the
    package <em>3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation</em> to
    the API change.</li>
  <li>Update of the package <em>Triangulated Surface Mesh
      Segmentation</em> and of the class
    <code>AABB_face_graph_triangle_primitive</code> from the
    package <em>3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation</em> to
    accept model of the newly introduced concepts.</li>
  <li>Offer <em>Euler</em> operations as free functions for models of the
    graph concepts provided by CGAL.</li>
  <li>Specialization of <code>boost::graph_traits</code>
    for <code>OpenMesh::PolyMesh_ArrayKernelT</code> as proof of
    concept.  A <code>OpenMesh::PolyMesh_ArrayKernelT</code> becomes a
    model of the aforementioned concepts when including
    <code>CGAL/boost/graph/graph_traits_PolyMesh_ArrayKernelT.h</code>.</li>
</ul>

<!-- Geometry Kernels -->
<h3>dD Geometry Kernel</h3>
<ul>
  <li> A new model <code>Epick_d</code> of the <code>Kernel_d</code>
    concept is introduced. It provides better performance through
    arithmetic filtering and specializations for fixed dimensions. It may
    not work with compilers as old as gcc-4.2, but was tested with
    gcc-4.4.</li>
</ul>

<!-- Convex Hull Algorithms -->
<h3>3D Convex Hulls</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Clean up the documentation of the concepts</li>
</ul>

<!-- Arrangements -->
<h3>2D Arrangements</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Fixed a bug in removing an unbounded curve (e.g., a ray) from
    an arrangement induced by unbounded curves.</li>
</ul>

<h3>2D Snap Rounding</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Replaced use of private <code>kd_tree</code> with CGAL's
    official <code>Kd_tree</code> from <code>Spatial_searching</code>
    package; results in a small performance gain. Removed the
    private <code>kd_tree</code> package.
  </li>
</ul>

<!-- Triangulations and Delaunay Triangulations -->
<h3>3D Triangulations</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Add an experimental parallel version of the Delaunay triangulation
    and the regular triangulation algorithms, which allows parallel
    insertion and removal of point ranges.</li>
</ul>

<!-- Mesh Generation -->
<h3>3D Mesh Generation</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Add a new constructor for the
    class <code>Labeled_mesh_domain_3</code> which takes
    an <code>Iso_cuboid_3</code>.</li>
  <li>Add a new labeling function wrapper for meshing multi-domain.</li>
  <li>The meshing functionality in the Qt demos
    in <code>demo/Polyhedron/</code> and <code>demo/Mesh_3/</code> can
    now use the handling of 1d-features, that exists in CGAL since
    version 3.8.
  <li> Add an experimental parallel version of the 3D mesh refinement and
    mesh optimization methods.
  </li>
  <li>Add caching of circumcenters to
    <code>Regular_triangulation_cell_base_3</code>. The cache value is
    computed when <code>cell->circumcenter()</code>
    or <code>rt.dual(cell)</code> functions are called.
  </li>
</ul>

<!-- Geometry Processing -->
<h3>Point Set Processing and Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets</h3>
<ul>
  <li>The former demo has been removed and is fully merge in the
    Polyhedron demo.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Point Set Processing</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Workaround a bug in dijsktra shortest path of boost 1.54 by
    shipping and using the boost header from the 1.55 release. This
    header will be used only if you are using the version 1.54 of
    boost.
  </li>
</ul>

<h3>Triangulated Surface Mesh Simplification</h3>
<ul>
  <li>
    <b>Breaking change:</b> Due to the cleanup of the concepts of the
    package <em>CGAL and the Boost Graph Library</em>, the named
    parameter <code>edge_is_border_map</code> has been removed, and the
    named parameter
    <code>edge_is_constrained_map</code> now expects a property map with
    an edge descriptor as key type (vs. halfedge descriptor before).
  </li>
  <li>Add some optimization in the code making the implementation faster
    (depending on the cost and the placement chosen). However, for an
    edge which collapse is not topologically valid, the vector of
    vertices of the link provided by its profile might contains
    duplicates, thus also breaking the orientation guarantee in the
    vector.  This must not be a problem for users as the edge is not
    collapsible anyway but if it is a absolute requirement for user
    defined cost/placement, defining the
    macro <code>CGAL_SMS_EDGE_PROFILE_ALWAYS_NEED_UNIQUE_VERTEX_IN_LINK</code>
    will restore the former behavior.
  </li>
</ul>

<!-- Spatial Searching and Sorting -->
<h3>dD Spatial Searching</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Added methods <code>reserve(size_t size)</code> and <code>size_t
      capacity()</code> to class <code>Kd_tree</code> to allocate memory
    to store <code>size</code> points and to report that number (STL
    compliance).
  </li>
</ul>

<!-- Support Library -->
<h3>STL Extensions for CGAL</h3>
<ul>
  <li> Add <code>Compact_container::operator[]</code>, allowing a direct
    access to the ith element of a compact container.</li>
  <li> Add <code>Concurrent_compact_container</code>, a compact container
    which allows concurrent insertion and removal.</li>
</ul>
