---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.7 beta1"
description: "CGAL 4.7 beta1 released"
category: 
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<a href="http://doc.cgal.org/4.7/Manual/index.html">Link to the
CGAL-4.7-beta1 documentation</a>

<!-- Installation (and general changes) -->
  <h3>Installation</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>The minimum required version of CMake is now 2.8.11. CMake versions
    3.1, 3.2, and 3.3 are supported.</li>
    <li>All Qt4 demos have been updated and now require Qt5 to be
    compiled. Qt5 version 5.3 or higher is required.
    The support for Qt4 is  dropped. To compile libCGAL_Qt5 and demos,
    you must set the cmake or environment variable <code>Qt5_DIR</code> to point to
    the path to the directory containing the file <code>Qt5Config.cmake</code> created
    by your Qt5 installation.
    If you are using the open source edition it should be
    <code>/path-to/qt-everywhere-opensource-src-&lt;version&gt;/qtbase/lib/cmake/Qt5</code>.</li>

    <li>The code of the 3D demos now use modern OpenGL, with shaders,
    instead of the fixed pipeline API of OpenGL-1.</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>General</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Support for unordered sets and maps of the stdlib and of boost for
      handle and index classes.
    </li>
  </ul>
<!-- New packages -->

  <h3>L Infinity Segment Delaunay Graphs (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      The package provides the geometric traits for constructing the
      segment Delaunay graph in the max-norm (L Infinity).  The traits also
      contain methods to draw the edges of the dual of the segment Delaunay
      graph in the max-norm i.e., the segment Voronoi diagram in the
      max-norm. The algorithm and traits rely on the segment Delaunay graph
      algorithm and traits under the Euclidean distance. The segment
      Voronoi diagram in the max-norm has applications in VLSI CAD.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Advancing Front Surface Reconstruction (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      This package provides a greedy algorithm for surface reconstruction
      from an unorganized point set. Starting from a seed facet, a
      piecewise linear surface is grown by adding Delaunay triangles one by
      one. The most plausible triangles are added first, in a way that
      avoids the appearance of topological singularities.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Triangulated Surface Mesh Shortest Paths (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      The package provides methods for computing shortest path on
      triangulated surface meshes. Given a set of source points
      on the surface, this package provides a data structure that
      can efficiently provides the shortest path from any point on
      the surface to the sources points.
      There is no restriction on the genus or the number of connected
      components of the mesh.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Triangulated Surface Mesh Skeletonization (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
         This package provides a (1D) curve skeleton extraction algorithm
         for a triangulated polygonal mesh without borders based on the
         mean curvature flow.  The particularity of this skeleton is that
         it captures the topology of the input.  For each skeleton vertex
         one can obtain its location and its corresponding vertices from
         the input mesh.  The code is generic and works with any model of
         the `FaceListGraph` concept.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>3D Point-Set Shape Detection (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      This package implements the efficient RANSAC method for shape detection,
      contributed by Schnabel et al. From an unstructured point set with
      unoriented normals, the algorithm detects a set of shapes. Five
      types of primitive shapes are provided by this package: plane,
      sphere, cylinder, cone and torus. Detecting other types of shapes
      is possible by implementing a class derived from a base shape.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>2D Visibility (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>This package provides several variants to compute the visibility
      area of a point within polygonal regions in two dimensions.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Polygon Mesh Processing (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
  <li>
  This package implements a collection of methods and classes
  for polygon mesh processing, ranging from basic operations on simplices,
  to complex geometry processing algorithms.
  The implementation of this package mainly follows algorithms and references
  given in Botsch et al.'s book on polygon mesh processing.
  </li>
  </ul>

<!-- Major and breaking changes -->
  <h3>Approximation of Ridges and Umbilics on Triangulated Surface Meshes</h3>
<ul>
<li> This package now supports any model of the concept <code>FaceGraph</code>.
</li>
<li> <b>Breaking change:</b> The package no longer support models
of <code>TriangulatedSurfaceMesh</code> which are not at the same time
model of the concept <code>FaceGraph</code>.
</li>
</ul>
<!-- Arithmetic and Algebra -->
<!-- Combinatorial Algorithms -->
<!-- Geometry Kernels -->
  <h3>dD Geometry Kernel</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Epick_d gains 3 new functors: <code>Construct_circumcenter_d</code>,
      <code>Compute_squared_radius_d</code>, <code>Side_of_bounded_sphere_d</code>.
      Those are essential for the computation of alpha-shapes.
    </li>
  </ul>
<!-- Convex Hull Algorithms -->
<!-- Polygons -->
<!-- Cell Complexes and Polyhedra -->
<!-- Arrangements -->
  <h3>2D Arrangements</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Introduced a new traits class, called
      <code>Arr_polycurve_traits_2&lt;SubcurveTraits&gt;</code>, which handles
      general piece-wise (polycurve) curves. The pieces do not necessarily
      have to be linear.</li>
    <li>Introduced two new concepts called
      <code>ArrangementApproximateTraits_2</code> and
      <code>ArrangementConstructXMonotoneCurveTraits_2</code>.
	</li>
      <ul>
	<li>The existing <code>ArrangementLandmarkTraits_2</code> concept,
	  which has two requirements, now refines the two respective concepts
	  above.</li>
	<li>The template parameter of the exsting
	  <code>Arr_polyline_traits_2&lt;SegmentTraits&gt;</code> template must
	  be substituted with a traits class that is a model of
	  the <code>ArrangementConstructXMonotoneTraits_2</code> concept among
	  the other when <code>Arr_polyline_traits_2</code> is
	  instantiated.</li>
      </ul></li>
  </ul>
  <h3>2D Minkowski Sums</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Added support for polygons with holes and optimized the construction
      of Minkowski sums.</li>
    <ul>
      <li>Introduced an implementation of the "reduced convolution" method, a
	variant of the method described in "2D Minkowski Sum of Polygons Using
	Reduced Convolution" by Behar and Lien. The new method supports polygons
	with holes and in many cases out pergorms the implementation of the
	exsisting (full) convolution method.</li>
      <li>Introduced two new classes that decompose polygons into convex pieces
	(models of the <code>PolygonConvexDecomposition_2</code> concept) based
	on vertical decomposition and constrained Delaunay triangulation,
	respectively. These new models also support the convex decomposition of
	polygons with holes.</li>
    </ul></li>
  </ul>

<!-- Triangulations and Delaunay Triangulations -->
  <h3>3D Periodic Triangulations</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Rename Periodic_3_triangulation_traits_3 Periodic_3_Delaunay_triangulation_traits_3.
    </li>
    <li>Rename the concept Periodic_3TriangulationTraits_3 Periodic_3DelaunayTriangulationTraits_3.
    </li>
    <li>Create Periodic_3_triangulation_traits_3 and the concept Periodic_3TriangulationTraits_3. 
    </li>
  </ul>

<!-- Voronoi Diagrams -->
<!-- Mesh Generation -->
  <h3>2D Conforming Triangulations and Meshes</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
    Add an optimization method <code>CGAL::lloyd_optimize_mesh_2()</code>
    that implements the Lloyd (or Centroidal Voronoi Tesselation)
    optimization algorithm in a Constrained Delaunay Triangulation.  For
    optimization, the triangulation data structure on which the mesher
    relies needs its <code>VertexBase</code> template parameter to be a
    model of the new concept <code>DelaunayMeshVertexBase_2</code>.
    </li>
  </ul>
<!-- Geometry Processing -->
  <h3>Point Set Processing and Surface Reconstruction from Point Sets</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
    Add the function <code>CGAL::compute_vcm()</code> for computing the
    Voronoi Covariance Measure (VCM) of a point set. The output of this function
    can be used with the function <code>CGAL::vcm_is_on_feature_edge()</code>
    to determine whether a point is on or close to a feature edge. The former
    function is also internally used by <code>CGAL::vcm_estimate_normals()</code>
    to estimate the normals of a point set and it is particularly suited to point
    set with noise.
    </li>
  </ul>
<!-- Spatial Searching and Sorting -->
  <h3>Spatial Sorting</h3>
  <ul>
        <li>Add the possibility to sort points on a sphere along
            a space-filling curve using the functions
            <code>CGAL::hilbert_sort_on_sphere</code> and
            <code>CGAL::spatial_sort_on_sphere</code>.</li>
  </ul>
<!-- Geometric Optimization -->
<!-- Interpolation -->
<!-- Support Library -->
  <h3>Geometric Object Generators</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add new random generator of points in a 2D and 3D triangle and in a
        tetrahedron
        (<code>CGAL::Random_points_in_triangle_2</code>,
        <code>CGAL::Random_points_in_triangle_3</code>,
        <code>CGAL::Random_points_in_tetrahedron_3</code>).
    </li>
  </ul>

