---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.6 beta1"
description: "CGAL 4.6 beta1 released"
category:
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<!-- Installation (and general changes) -->
<!-- New packages -->

<h3>2D Polyline Simplification (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>This package enables to simplify polylines with the guarantee
        that the topology of the polylines does not change. This can be
        done for a single polyline as well as for a set of polyline
        constraints in a constrained triangulation. The simplification
        can be controlled with cost and stop functions.</li>
</ul>

  <h3>2D Generalized Barycentric Coordinates (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>  This package offers an efficient and robust implementation of
          two-dimensional closed-form generalized barycentric coordinates
          defined for simple two-dimensional polygons.</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Scale-Space Surface Reconstruction (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>This new package provides a class gathering a dedicated smoothing
        algorithm and some convenience functions to help the creation of
        a surface out of a point set using the 3D Alpha Shapes package.
        The particularity of this reconstruction pipeline is that the
        input point are in the output and no new points are created.
        Note that in the current version, the output is a triangle soup
        that is not necessarily a valid (manifold) polyhedral surface.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Surface Mesh (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>The surface mesh class provided by this package is a data structure
      that can be used as halfedge data structure or polyhedral surface. It
      is an alternative to the packages <code>CGAL::Polyhedron_3</code>
      and <code>CGAL::HalfedgeDS</code>. </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Triangulation (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>This new package provides classes for manipulating triangulations
        in Euclidean spaces whose dimension can be specified at
        compile-time or at run-time.</li>
  </ul>

<!-- Major and breaking changes -->
<!-- Arithmetic and Algebra -->
<!-- Combinatorial Algorithms -->
<!-- Geometry Kernels -->
  <h3>dD Geometry Kernel</h3>
  <ul>
    <li> It has been reported that the recently introduced <code>Epick_d</code>
      kernel may not work with Intel C++ Compiler prior to version 15. 
      Documentation has been updated.</li>
  </ul>
<!-- Convex Hull Algorithms -->
  <h3>3D Convex Hulls</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add functions <code>halfspace_intersection_3</code> and
        <code>halfspace_intersection_with_constructions_3</code> to compute
        the intersection of halfspaces defining a closed polyhedron.</li>
    <li>Fix a bug introduced in CGAL 4.5 that can appear while computing
        the convex hull of coplanar points.</li>
    <li>Fix a robustness issue in <code>Convex_hull_traits_3</code>.
        This traits is used by default with the kernel
        <code>Exact_predicates_inexact_constructions_kernel</code>.</li>
  </ul>
<!-- Polygons -->
<!-- Cell Complexes and Polyhedra -->
  <h3>Combinatorial Maps and Linear Cell Complex</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Added <code>correct_invalid_attributes</code>,
      <code>set_automatic_attributes_management</code> and
      <code>are_attributes_automatically_managed</code> methods in 
      <code>CombinatorialMap</code> concept. This allows high level
      operations to not update non void attributes during massive calls
      of these operations, but only after the end of their executions.
    </li>
  </ul>
<!-- Arrangements -->
<!-- Triangulations and Delaunay Triangulations -->
 <h3>2D Triangulations</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>The class <code>Constrained_triangulation_plus_2</code> now
        can handle polylines as constraints.</li>
    <li>As a consequence a <code>Constraint_id</code> has been introduced
        which replaces <code>pair&lt;Vertex_handle,Vertex_handle&gt;</code> as
        identifier of a constraint.
  </ul>
<!-- Voronoi Diagrams -->
<!-- Mesh Generation -->
  <h3>3D Mesh Generation</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add member functions <code>output_boundary_to_off</code> and
        <code>output_facets_in_complex_to_off</code>
        in the class <code>CGAL::Mesh_complex_3_in_triangulation_3</code>
        to export the boundary of a domain or a subdomain.</li>
  </ul>
<!-- Geometry Processing -->
<!-- Spatial Searching and Sorting -->
  <h3>3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add new constructors
    to <code>AABB_halfedge_graph_segment_primitive</code> and
    <code>AABB_face_graph_triangle_primitive</code> in order to be able to
    build primitives one by one.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Spatial Searching</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Fixed a bug in <code>CGAL::Splitters.h</code> sliding mitdpoint rule, 
      where degenerated point sets (e.g.,points on segment)
      caused the kd-tree to get linear.
    </li>
    <li>
      Improved performance of <code>Orthogonal_k_neighbor_search</code>.
      Note that VC 2013 does not
      compile <code>boost::container::deque</code> of Boost 1_55 and does
      hence have a workaround which does not have the improvement.
    </li>
    <li>
      <b>Breaking change:</b> The concept <code>OrthogonalDistance</code> has
      new function overloads for <code>min_distance_to_rectangle</code> and
      <code>max_distance_to_rectangle</code> with an additional reference 
      parameter <code>std::vector</code>.
    </li>
    <li>
      <b>Breaking change:</b> The order of the points in the iterator range 
      <code>[tree.begin(),tree.end()]</code> is not the order of 
      insertion of the points into the tree.  This was not guaranteed before
      but might have beeen observed and exploited by users.
    </li>
    <li>
      Derived <code>kd_tree_leaf_node</code>
      and <code>kd_tree_internal_node</code> from <code>kd_tree_node</code>
      to save memory.
    </li>
  </ul>
<!-- Geometric Optimization -->
<!-- Interpolation -->
<!-- Support Library -->
  <h3>Geometric Object Generators</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add a new function <code>random_convex_hull_in_disc_2</code> that
        efficiently generates a random polygon as the convex hull of
        uniform random points chosen in a disc.</li>
  </ul>
<!-- end of the div for 4.6 -->
</div>
