---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.9"
description: "CGAL 4.9 released"
category: 
tags: ["release"]
---

{% include JB/setup %}

<a href="http://doc.cgal.org/4.9/Manual/index.html">Link to the
CGAL-4.9 documentation</a>

<a href="/download/4.9">Download link for CGAL-4.9</a>

  <h3>Header-only mode</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      CGAL can now be used in headers only mode, i.e. without compiling the
      CGAL libraries and linking with these libraries when compiling
      examples, tests and demos. Note that running CMake on CGAL is still
      required in order to generate some configuration files.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Cone Based Spanners (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      This package provides algorithms for constructing two kinds of
      cone-based spanners: Yao graph and Theta graph, given a set of
      vertices on the plane and the directions of cone boundaries.
    </li>
  </ul>
<h3>2D Minkowski Sums</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Introduce a convex decomposition strategy,
    namely <code>Polygon_nop_decomposition_2</code>, that merely passed the
    input polygon to the list of output polygons.</li>
  <li>Introduce overloads of the function <code>minkowski_sum_2()</code>,
    which accepts 2 decomposition strategies.</li>
  <li>Introduce an overloaded function
    called <code>minkowski_sum_by_decomposition_2(P, Q, decom_no_holes,
    decomp_with_holes)</code>, which computes the 2D Minkowski sum using
    optimal choices of decomposition strategies.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Combinatorial Maps</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Deprecate global functions
      (<code>make_combinatorial_hexahedron()</code>,
      <code>make_combinatorial_polygon()</code>,
      <code>make_combinatorial_tetrahedron()</code>,
      <code>make_edge()</code>,
      <code>insert_cell_0_in_cell_1()</code>,
      <code>insert_cell_0_in_cell_2()</code>,
      <code>insert_cell_1_in_cell_2()</code>,
      <code>insert_cell_2_in_cell_3()</code>,
      <code>insert_dangling_cell_1_in_cell_2()</code>,
      <code>is_insertable_cell_1_in_cell_2()</code>,
      <code>is_insertable_cell_2_in_cell_3()</code>,
      <code>is_removable()</code>,
      <code>remove_cell()</code>) which are now member functions in
      the <code>CombinatorialMap</code> concept.</li>
    <li>It is not longer possible to use the old API switched on by
      defining the macro <code>CGAL_CMAP_DEPRECATED</code>.
      This API was deprecated since CGAL 4.4.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Point Set Processing</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>New function <code>CGAL::read_ply_custom_points()</code> that
    allows the user to read any additional point attribute from a PLY
    input point set.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Point Set Shape Detection</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>New post-processing
      algorithm: <code>CGAL::regularize_planes()</code>. This allows the
      user to favor parallelism, orthogonality, coplanarity and/or axial
      symmetry between detected planes.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Polygon Mesh Processing</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add the function
  <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::is_polygon_soup_a_polygon_mesh()</code>
      to check whether a polygon soup is a polygon mesh.</li>
    <li> Add some new features to <code>CGAL::isotropic_remeshing()</code>:
      <ul>
        <li>
          It is now possible to select fixed vertices that survive the
          remeshing process, and to keep face attributes such as colors
          valid after remeshing.
        </li>
        <li>
          The user can choose the number of relaxation steps happening at
          each loop, and to run 1-dimensional relaxation along constrained
          polylines.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      The functions
      <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::triangulate_face()</code>
      and <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::triangulate_faces()</code>
      now indicate whether some faces have not been triangulated.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Surface Mesh Deformation</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add a new tag <code>SRE_ARAP</code> to use the Smoothed Rotation
      Enhanced As-Rigid-As-Possible deformation algorithm.</li>
  </ul>
 <h3>3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add the functions <code>AABB_tree::first_intersection()</code>
     and <code>AABB_tree::first_intersected_primitive()</code> that compute
     the intersection which is closest to the source of a ray</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (BGL)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Add a helper function <code>CGAL::copy_face_graph()</code> to
      copy a source FaceListGraph into another FaceListGraph of
      different type.
    </li>
    <li>
      Add a class <code>CGAL::Dual</code> that creates the dual view of
      a <code>FaceGraph</code> and a creation
      function <code>CGAL::dual(primal)</code>.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h4>CGAL and Boost Property Maps</h4>
  <ul>
    <li>It is not longer possible to use the old API of the property maps
        provided by CGAL, switched on by defining the macro
        <code>CGAL_USE_PROPERTY_MAPS_API_V1</code>. This API was deprecated
        since CGAL 4.3.
    </li>
  </ul>
