---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.8 beta1"
description: "CGAL 4.8 beta1 released"
category: 
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<a href="http://doc.cgal.org/4.8/Manual/index.html">Link to the
CGAL-4.8-beta1 documentation</a>

  <h3>General</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>The support for Qt3 is dropped and all demos using it got removed.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Installation</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Starting with Visual C++ 2015 we no longer
        require <code>Boost.Thread</code> as we use the C++11
        keyword <code>thread_local</code> and the C+11
        class <code>std::mutex</code> .</li>
    <li>The same holds for g++ 4.8 or later when the C++11 standard is
      used.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>2D Reconstruction and Simplification from Point Set (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      This package implements a method to reconstruct and simplify 2D point
      sets. The input is a set of 2D points with mass attributes, possibly
      hampered by noise and outliers. The output is a set of line segments
      and isolated points which approximate the input points.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>2D Regularized Boolean Set-Operations</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Improve the performance of operations in some settings.<br />
        <b>Breaking change</b>: This improvement requires changes of the
        face and halfedge type of the underlying arrangement Dcel.  See the
        concepts <code>GeneralPolygonSetDcelHalfedge</code> and
        <code>GeneralPolygonSetDcelFace</code> for more details.  If you use a
        different simplex types, inheriting your simplices from
        <code>CGAL::Gps_face_base</code>
        and <code>CGAL::Gps_halfedge_base</code> is sufficient to
        accommodate for the update.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>3D Boolean Operations on Nef Polyhedra</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add 3 new constructors: from a point range, from a point, and from
    a segment.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Combinatorial Maps</h3>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: Change the type of Boolean marks, old type
    is int, new type is <code>size_type</code>. If no more mark is
    available, <code>get_new_mark</code> throws an exception, instead of
    returning <code>-1</code>.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>2D Arrangements</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Speed up the edge removal in case the incident faces contains many
    holes.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>3D Mesh Generation</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add support of 3D gray level images as input for the tetrahedral
    mesh generation.</li>
    <li><b>Breaking change:</b> All models of the
    concept <code>MeshDomain_3</code> must now provide a member
    function <code>bbox()</code>. </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Advancing Front Surface Reconstruction</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Optional template functor <code>Filter</code> is replaced by
    another optional template functor <code>Priority</code>. This
    allows to change the way facets are prioritized by the algorithm
    instead of having a simple option to reject some
    facets.<br /><b>Breaking change</b>: Programs using the
    old <code>Filter</code> API will not compile anymore as it must be
    replaced with the <code>Priority</code> API as described in the
    manual. Codes using the default behavior are not impacted.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Polygon Mesh Processing</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add a new triangle-based isotropic remeshing algorithm for
    triangulated surface meshes,
    <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::isotropic_remeshing()</code>
    and a helper function for isotropic remeshing :
    <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::split_long_edges()</code></li>
    <li>Add the
    function <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::border_halfedges()</code>
    to collect the border of a given face range</li>
    <li>Add the
    function <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::remove_isolated_vertices()</code>
    to be used on any polygon mesh</li>
    <li>Add the
    function <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::triangulate_face()</code>
    to triangulate a single face of a polygon mesh</li>
    <li>Add an overload
    for <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::triangulate_faces()</code> to
    triangulate a range of faces of a polygon mesh</li>
    <li>Add function <code>keep_large_connected_components()</code></li>
    <li>Add measuring functions for polygon meshes, to compute length,
    area, and volume of simplices or group of simplices of a polygon
    mesh.</li>
    <li>Add function <code>bbox_3()</code> to compute the bounding box of a
    polygon mesh.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Surface Mesh Parameterization</h3>
  <ul>
    <li><code>LSCM_parameterizer_3</code> now uses by default Eigen instead
    of OpenNL as a model of <code>SparseLinearAlgebraTraits_d</code>.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Point Set Processing</h3>
  <ul>
    <li> <b>Breaking change:</b> new template
      parameter <code>Concurrency_tag</code> for the
      functions <code>compute_average_spacing()</code>,
      <code>edge_aware_upsample_point_set()</code>,
      <code>jet_estimate_normals()</code>,
      <code>jet_smooth_point_set()</code>,
      and <code>pca_estimate_normals()</code>.  To update your code simply
      add as first template parameter <code>CGAL::Sequential_tag</code>
      or <code>CGAL::Parallel_tag</code> when calling one of these
      functions.</li>
    <li> <code>CGAL::Parallel_tag</code> can no longer be used in Point Set
      Processing algorithms if TBB is not available.</li>
    <li>
      Add a new simplification algorithm based on hierarchical
    clustering: <code>CGAL::hierarchy_simplify_point_set()</code>. It
    allows either to uniformly simplify the point set or to automatically
    adapt the local density of points to the local variation of the input
    computed by principal component analysis.
    </li>
    <li> New IO functions for PLY format (Polygon File
      Format): <code>CGAL::read_ply_points()</code>,
      <code>CGAL::read_ply_points_and_normals()</code>,
      <code>CGAL::write_ply_points()</code>
      and <code>CGAL::write_ply_points_and_normals()</code>.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Surface Mesh Parameterization</h3>
  <ul>
    <li><code>LSCM_parameterizer_3</code> now uses by default Eigen
    instead of OpenNL as a model
    of <code>SparseLinearAlgebraTraits_d</code>.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Spatial Searching</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add function to find any point in a range query, that is neither
    all points, nor the closest one.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Principal Component Analysis</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Add a template parameter <code>DiagonalizeTraits</code> for
      functions <code>CGAL::linear_least_squares_fitting_2()</code>
      and <code>CGAL::linear_least_squares_fitting_3()</code>. This
      allows to either choose the legacy internal diagonalization code
      from CGAL or the Eigen implementation (or any class that is a
      model of <code>DiagonalizeTraits</code>). Variants of the
      function that automatically deduce the kernel also automatically
      select the diagonalizer, so the API is mostly preserved.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>CGAL and Solvers</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      This package now includes all CGAL concepts for solvers with
      models using the third party Eigen library.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (BGL)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add function <code>CGAL::split_graph_into_polylines()</code> that allows
        to extract from a soup of segments given as a graph, polylines with nodes
        of degree at most 2. In addition a functor can be passed to the function
        to specify additional polyline endpoints.</li>
    <li>
      New functions to manipulate selection of faces, edges and vertices in
      a halfedge graph are added:
      <code>CGAL::expand_face_selection()</code>, <code>CGAL::reduce_face_selection()</code>,
      <code>CGAL::expand_edge_selection()</code>, <code>CGAL::reduce_edge_selection()</code>
      <code>CGAL::expand_vertex_selection()</code>, <code>CGAL::reduce_vertex_selection()</code>
      and <code>CGAL::select_incident_faces()</code>.
    </li>
    <li>
      Add a helper function <code>CGAL::clear</code> which clears a
      MutableFaceGraph efficiently and generically.
    </li>
  </ul>
<!-- Visualization -->
