---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.11 beta1 released"
description: "CGAL 4.11 beta1"
category: 
tags: ["beta-release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-4.11-beta1">Download CGAL-4.11-beta1</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/4.11/Manual/index.html">CGAL-4.11-beta1 documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 4.11 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2017/05/29/cgal410">CGAL 4.10</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### 3D Periodic Regular Triangulations (new feature)

-   Added the class `Periodic_3_regular_triangulation_3`, which provides
    functionality for 3D periodic weighted Delaunay triangulations. The
    construction is fully dynamic: it provides both point insertion and
    vertex removal.

### dD Regular Triangulations (new feature)

-   Added the class `Regular_triangulation`, which provides
    functionality for dD weighted Delaunay triangulations. Note that the
    removal of points is not yet supported.

### 2D and 3D Linear Geometry Kernel (breaking change)

-   **Breaking change**: The dangerous implicit conversions between
    weighted points and points in the concept `Kernel` have been
    disabled. Constructors offering to build a weighted point from a
    point (and reversely) are still requested by the concept `Kernel`
    but must now be marked with the `explicit` specifier.
-   **Breaking change**: The removal of implicit conversions between
    points and weighted points in the concept `Kernel` has incidentally
    created various minor breaking changes in the following packages: 2D
    Alpha Shapes, 2D and 3D Triangulations, and 3D Mesh Generation. See
    the full changelog for details.

### Triangulated Surface Mesh Parameterization (breaking change)

-   **Breaking change**: The package has been rewritten and can operate
    on any model of the `MutableFaceGraph` concept. All previous
    parameterization methods are still offered, although with a
    different, simpler API. The documentation has been updated and
    offers a gentle introduction to the new API. Users who wish to use
    the former API must use a version prior to 4.11.
-   **Breaking change**: The adapter to add virtual seams is now the
    class `CGAL::Seam_mesh` in the package *CGAL and the BGL*.
-   **Breaking change**: The package has been restructured and most
    headers have been moved. In a general manner, users should replace
    `<CGAL/XXX.h>` with `<CGAL/Surface_mesh_parameterization/XXX.h>`
-   Add the *As Rigid As Possible Parameterization* method. This
    parameterization allows the user to prioritize angle preservation,
    shape preservation, or a balance of both.
-   Add the *Orbifold Tutte Embedding* method. This parameterization
    method allows to parameterize meshes that are topological spheres.

### 3D Surface Subdivision Methods (breaking changes)

-   The subdivision algorithms now work on any model of a
    `MutableFaceGraph`. A new API to the subdivision methods is offered,
    which uses optional named parameters to pass the number of
    iterations and a vertex property map.
-   **Breaking change**: Removed the headers
    `<CGAL/Subdivision_method_3.h>` and `<CGAL/Subdivision_mask_3.h>`.
    The headers `<CGAL/Subdivision_method_3/subdivision_methods_3.h>`
    and `<CGAL/Subdivision_method_3/subdivision_masks_3.h>` should
    respectively be used instead.
-   Sqrt3 subdivision can now handle input surfaces with a border.

### Scale-Space Surface Reconstruction (breaking change)

-   **Breaking change**: the API was rewritten to separate the smoothing
    and meshing algorithm and making it possible for the user to use
    different ones. The default algorithms used are the same as before
    this API change, but methods are moved to the classes
    `Weighted_PCA_smoother` and `Alpha_shape_mesher`.
-   Alternative smoothing and meshing methods are provided:
    `Jet_smoother` and `Advancing_front_mesher`.

### 2D Alpha Shapes

-   **Breaking change**: Mirrored the concepts of the 2D alpha shape
    package with those of the 3D Alpha Shapes package. Consequently, a
    new concept, `WeightedAlphaShapeTraits_2`, is introduced to provide
    requirements on the traits class for 2D weighted alpha shapes. All
    models of the concept `Kernel` are models of this new concept.
-   The concept `AlphaShapeTraits_2` now provides requirements on the
    traits class for 2D basic alpha shapes, and refines
    `DelaunayTriangulationTraits_2`.

### 2D and 3D Triangulations

-   **Breaking change**: Added a new functor requirement,
    `Construct_point_2`, to the concepts `TriangulationTraits_2` and
    `RegularTriangulationTraits_2` and a new functor requirement,
    `Construct_point_3`, to the concepts `TriangulationTraits_3` and
    `RegularTriangulationTraits_3`. All models of the concept `Kernel`
    already provide these functors.
-   **Breaking change**: Introduced the concepts
    `RegularTriangulationVertexBase_2` and
    `RegularTriangulationVertexBase_3`. These concepts describe the
    requirements on classes meant to represent a vertex of a regular
    triangulation. Concepts that previously refined
    `TriangulationVertexBase_2` or `TriangulationVertexBase_3` but
    described in fact a vertex class used in a regular triangulation,
    such as the concept `MeshVertexBase_3` in the 3D mesh generation
    package, now refine the corresponding new regular vertex concept.
-   **Breaking change**: Uniformized the point type across all vertex
    and cell concepts. The triangulation point type name is now always
    `Point`. Note that this does not change the requirements but only
    the name: `Point` is still expected to be equal to
    `Traits::Point_[23]` for basic and Delaunay triangulations or to
    `Traits::Weighted_point_[23]` for regular triangulations.
    Consequently:
    -   The concept `RegularTriangulationVertexBase_2` now requests a
        `Point` type (equal to `Traits::Weighted_point_2`)
    -   The concept `RegularTriangulationCellBase_3` now requests a
        `Point` type instead of a `Weighted_point` type (but still equal
        to `Traits::Weighted_point_3`)
    -   The concept `DelaunayTriangulationCellBase_3` now requests a
        `Point` type instead of a `Point_3` type (but still equal to
        `Traits::Point_3`).
-   Introduced a new concept,
    `RegularTriangulationCellBaseWithWeightedCircumcenter_3`, which
    describes the requirements on a cell of a regular triangulation that
    caches its circumcenter. The existing class
    `Regular_triangulation_cell_base_with_weighted_circumcenter_3` is
    the default model of this concept.
-   Added a new 3D traits class,
    `Robust_weighted_circumcenter_filtered_traits_3` which provides
    robust versions of the kernel functors
    `Construct_weighted_circumcenter_3`, `Compute_squared_radius_3`, and
    `Compute_squared_radius_smallest_orthogonal_sphere_3`. This class
    can be used as traits class in the the `Mesh_3` package to
    efficiently yet robustly generate 3D meshes.
-   Add a new type of polyhedral domain with features,
    `Polyhedral_complex_mesh_domain_3`. The domain is defined by a
    collection of triangulated surfaces, forming a complex.

### 3D Periodic Triangulations

-   Added new locate and geometric access functions for 3D periodic
    triangulations.
-   The class `Periodic_3_Delaunay_triangulation_traits_3` now inherits
    `Periodic_3_triangulation_traits_3`.
-   **Breaking change**: Some geometric access functions in
    `Periodic_3_triangulation_3` were renamed. The introduction of
    `Periodic_3_regular_triangulation_3` required to distinguish between
    functions such as `segment()` returning a segment of weightless
    points, or a segment of weighted points. As a general rule, previous
    geometrical access functions will return objects with point type
    that of the triangulation (thus, weighted objects when using
    weighted triangulations) and functions containing `construct` in the
    name will always return weightless geometrical objects.
-   **Breaking change**: The concept `Periodic_3TriangulationTraits_3`
    now requests a domain getter: `get_domain()`.
-   Introduced a new concept,
    `RegularTriangulationCellBaseWithWeightedCircumcenter_3`, which
    describes the requirements on a cell of a regular triangulation that
    caches its circumcenter. The existing class
    `Regular_triangulation_cell_base_with_weighted_circumcenter_3` is
    the default model of this concept.

### 3D Mesh Generation

-   **Breaking change**: The type of the surface center in the concept
    `MeshCellBase_3` has been changed from `Triangulation::Point` to
    `TriangulationTraits::Point_3` to reflect that it is a weightless
    point.
-   **Breaking change**: The function `invalidate_circumcenter()` of the
    concept `MeshCellBase_3` is renamed to
    `invalidate_weighted_circumcenter_cache()` and moved to the new
    concept `RegularTriangulationCellBaseWithWeightedCircumcenter_3`,
    which the concept `MeshCellBase_3` now refines.

### Poisson Surface Reconstruction

-   A new global function `CGAL::poisson_surface_reconstruction_delaunay()` is provided in
    addition to the current class-based API in order to make it easier
    to use.

### Point Set Processing

-   New functions to read from and write to LAS/LAZ files (LIDAR
    format), with or without taking additional properties into account.
-   **Breaking change:** The API of the PLY function to read points with
    properties is modified for unification with LAS (see
    `CGAL::read_ply_points_with_properties()`). A new function to write
    PLY with properties is provided
    (`CGAL::write_ply_points_with_properties()`).

### Spatial Searching

  -   Added function `Kd_tree::remove(Point)`.

### CGAL and the Boost Graph Library

-   Added a partial specialization for the class
    `CGAL::Linear_cell_complex_for_combinatorial_map` so that it is a
    model of the graph concepts `BidirectionalGraph` and
    `EdgeAndVertexListGraph` and of the concept `MutableFaceGraph`. This
    class can thus now be used in all BGL functions and algorithms.
-   Helper functions to create an icosahedron, a regular prism and a
    pyramid have been added.
-   Added class `CGAL::Face_filtered_graph` that wraps an existing graph
    and hide all simplices that are not in the selected connected
    components.
-   Added the class `CGAL::Seam_mesh`. The `Seam_mesh` is a graph
    adaptor which allows to create virtual borders when marking edges as
    seam edges.
-   Added the functions `read_off()` and `write_off()`.
</div>
