---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.11"
description: "CGAL 4.11 released"
category: 
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<a href="http://doc.cgal.org/4.11/Manual/index.html">Link to the
CGAL-4.11 documentation</a>

<a href="/download/4.11">Download link for CGAL-4.11</a>

  <h3>3D Periodic Regular Triangulations (new feature)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Added the class <code>Periodic_3_regular_triangulation_3</code>,
      which provides functionality for 3D periodic weighted Delaunay
      triangulations. The construction is fully dynamic: it provides both
      point insertion and vertex removal.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>dD Regular Triangulations (new feature)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Added the class <code>Regular_triangulation</code>, which provides
      functionality for dD weighted Delaunay triangulations. Note that the
      removal of points is not yet supported.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>2D and 3D Linear Geometry Kernel (breaking change)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: The dangerous implicit conversions between
      weighted points and points in the concept <code>Kernel</code> have
      been disabled. Constructors offering to build a weighted point from a
      point (and reversely) are still requested by the
      concept <code>Kernel</code> but must now be marked with
      the <code>explicit</code> specifier.
    </li>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: The removal of implicit conversions between
      points and weighted points in the concept <code>Kernel</code> has
      incidentally created various minor breaking changes in the following
      packages: 2D Alpha Shapes, 2D and 3D Triangulations, and 3D Mesh
      Generation. See the full changelog for details.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Surface Mesh</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <b>Breaking change</b>: <code>operator >>(std::istream&,
      Surface_mesh&)</code> no longer clears the surface mesh.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Triangulated Surface Mesh Parameterization (breaking change)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <b>Breaking change</b>: The package has been rewritten and can operate
      on any model of the <code>MutableFaceGraph</code> concept. All previous
      parameterization methods are still offered, although with a different,
      simpler API.  The documentation has been updated and offers a gentle
      introduction to the new API.  Users who wish to use the former API must
      use a version prior to 4.11.
    </li>
    <li>
      <b>Breaking change</b>: The adapter to add virtual seams is now the
      class <code>CGAL::Seam_mesh</code> in the package <em>CGAL and the
        BGL</em>.
    </li>
    <li>
      <b>Breaking change</b>: The package has been restructured and most
      headers have been moved. In a general manner, users should
      replace <code>&lt;CGAL/XXX.h&gt;</code>
      with <code>&lt;CGAL/Surface_mesh_parameterization/XXX.h&gt;</code>
    </li>
    <li>
      Add the <em>As Rigid As Possible Parameterization</em> method. This
      parameterization allows the user to prioritize angle preservation,
      shape preservation, or a balance of both.
    </li>
    <li>
      Add the <em>Orbifold Tutte Embedding</em> method. This
      parameterization method allows to parameterize meshes that are
      topological spheres.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3> 3D Surface Subdivision Methods (breaking changes)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      The subdivision algorithms now work on any model of
      a <code>MutableFaceGraph</code>.  A new API to the subdivision
      methods is offered, which uses optional named parameters to pass the
      number of iterations and a vertex property map.
    </li>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: Removed the
      headers <code>&lt;CGAL/Subdivision_method_3.h&gt;</code> and
      <code>&lt;CGAL/Subdivision_mask_3.h&gt;</code>. The headers
      <code>&lt;CGAL/Subdivision_method_3/subdivision_methods_3.h&gt;</code>
      and
      <code>&lt;CGAL/Subdivision_method_3/subdivision_masks_3.h&gt;</code>
      should respectively be used instead.
    </li>
    <li>
      Sqrt3 subdivision can now handle input surfaces with a border.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Scale-Space Surface Reconstruction (breaking change)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: the API was rewritten to separate the
      smoothing and meshing algorithm and making it possible for the user
      to use different ones. The default algorithms used are the same as
      before this API change, but methods are moved to the
      classes <code>Weighted_PCA_smoother</code>
      and <code>Alpha_shape_mesher</code>.</li>
    <li>Alternative smoothing and meshing methods are
      provided: <code>Jet_smoother</code>
      and <code>Advancing_front_mesher</code>.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3> 2D Alpha Shapes </h3>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: Mirrored the concepts of the 2D alpha shape
      package with those of the 3D Alpha Shapes package. Consequently, a
      new concept, <code>WeightedAlphaShapeTraits_2</code>, is introduced
      to provide requirements on the traits class for 2D weighted alpha
      shapes. All models of the concept <code>Kernel</code> are models of
      this new concept.
    </li>
    <li>
      The concept <code>AlphaShapeTraits_2</code> now provides requirements
      on the traits class for 2D basic alpha shapes, and
      refines <code>DelaunayTriangulationTraits_2</code>.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3> Interpolation </h3>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: The
    concept <code>GradientFittingTraits</code> now additionally requests a
    weighted point type <code>Weighted_point_d</code> and a
    functor <code>Construct_point_d</code>. The model
    <code>CGAL::Interpolation_gradient_fitting_traits_2</code> has been
    appropriately modified to still be a model of the
    concept <code>GradientFittingTraits</code>.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3> 2D and 3D Triangulations </h3>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: Added a new functor
      requirement, <code>Construct_point_2</code>, to the concepts
      <code>TriangulationTraits_2</code>
      and <code>RegularTriangulationTraits_2</code> and a new functor
      requirement, <code>Construct_point_3</code>, to the concepts
      <code>TriangulationTraits_3</code>
      and <code>RegularTriangulationTraits_3</code>.  All models of the
      concept <code>Kernel</code> already provide these functors.
    </li>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: Introduced the
      concepts <code>RegularTriangulationVertexBase_2</code> and
      <code>RegularTriangulationVertexBase_3</code>. These concepts
      describe the requirements on classes meant to represent a vertex of a
      regular triangulation.  Concepts that previously
      refined <code>TriangulationVertexBase_2</code> or
      <code>TriangulationVertexBase_3</code> but described in fact a vertex
      class used in a regular triangulation, such as the
      concept <code>MeshVertexBase_3</code> in the 3D mesh generation
      package, now refine the corresponding new regular vertex concept.</li>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>:
      Uniformized the point type across all vertex and cell concepts. The
      triangulation point type name is now always <code>Point</code>. Note
      that this does not change the requirements but only the
      name: <code>Point</code> is still expected to be equal to
      <code>Traits::Point_[23]</code> for basic and Delaunay triangulations
      or to
      <code>Traits::Weighted_point_[23]</code> for regular
      triangulations. Consequently:
      <ul>
        <li>
          The concept <code>RegularTriangulationVertexBase_2</code> now
          requests a <code>Point</code> type (equal
          to <code>Traits::Weighted_point_2</code>)
        </li>
        <li>
          The concept <code>RegularTriangulationCellBase_3</code> now
          requests a <code>Point</code> type instead of
          a <code>Weighted_point</code> type (but still equal
          to <code>Traits::Weighted_point_3</code>)
        </li>
        <li>
          The concept <code>DelaunayTriangulationCellBase_3</code> now
          requests a <code>Point</code> type instead of
          a <code>Point_3</code> type (but still equal
          to <code>Traits::Point_3</code>).
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      Introduced a new concept,
      <code>RegularTriangulationCellBaseWithWeightedCircumcenter_3</code>,
      which describes the requirements on a cell of a regular triangulation
      that caches its circumcenter. The existing class
      <code>Regular_triangulation_cell_base_with_weighted_circumcenter_3</code>
      is the default model of this concept.
    </li>
    <li>
      Added a new 3D traits
      class, <code>Robust_weighted_circumcenter_filtered_traits_3</code>
      which provides robust versions of the kernel
      functors <code>Construct_weighted_circumcenter_3</code>,
      <code>Compute_squared_radius_3</code>, and
      <code>Compute_squared_radius_smallest_orthogonal_sphere_3</code>.
      This class can be used as traits class in the the <code>Mesh_3</code>
      package to efficiently yet robustly generate 3D meshes.
    </li>
    <li>
      Add a new type of polyhedral domain with features,
      <code>Polyhedral_complex_mesh_domain_3</code>.
      The domain is defined by a collection of triangulated surfaces, forming a complex.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>3D Periodic Triangulations</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Added new locate and geometric access functions for 3D periodic
      triangulations.
    </li>
    <li>
      The class <code>Periodic_3_Delaunay_triangulation_traits_3</code> now
      inherits <code>Periodic_3_triangulation_traits_3</code>.
    </li>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: Some geometric access functions
      in <code>Periodic_3_triangulation_3</code> were renamed.  The
      introduction of <code>Periodic_3_regular_triangulation_3</code>
      required to distinguish between functions such
      as <code>segment()</code> returning a segment of weightless points,
      or a segment of weighted points. As a general rule, previous
      geometrical access functions will return objects with point type that
      of the triangulation (thus, weighted objects when using weighted
      triangulations) and functions containing <code>construct</code> in
      the name will always return weightless geometrical objects.
    </li>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: The
      concept <code>Periodic_3TriangulationTraits_3</code> now requests a
      domain getter: <code>get_domain()</code>.
    </li>
    <li>
      Introduced a new
      concept,
      <code>RegularTriangulationCellBaseWithWeightedCircumcenter_3</code>,
      which describes the requirements on a cell of a regular triangulation
      that caches its circumcenter. The existing class
      <code>Regular_triangulation_cell_base_with_weighted_circumcenter_3</code>
      is the default model of this concept.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3> 3D Mesh Generation </h3>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: The type of the surface center in the
      concept <code>MeshCellBase_3</code> has been changed
      from <code>Triangulation::Point</code> to
      <code>TriangulationTraits::Point_3</code> to reflect that it is a
      weightless point.
    </li>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: The
      function <code>invalidate_circumcenter()</code> of the
      concept <code>MeshCellBase_3</code> is renamed to
      <code>invalidate_weighted_circumcenter_cache()</code> and moved to
      the new concept
      <code>RegularTriangulationCellBaseWithWeightedCircumcenter_3</code>,
      which the concept <code>MeshCellBase_3</code> now refines.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Poisson Surface Reconstruction</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>A new global
      function <code>CGAL::poisson_surface_reconstruction_delaunay()</code>
      is provided in addition to the current class-based API in order to
      make it easier to use.</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Point Set Processing</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>New functions to read from and write to LAS/LAZ files (LIDAR
    format), with or without taking additional properties into
    account.</li>
    <li><b>Breaking change:</b> The API of the PLY function to read
    points with properties is modified for unification with LAS
    (see <code>CGAL::read_ply_points_with_properties()</code>). A new
    function to write PLY with properties is provided
      (<code>CGAL::write_ply_points_with_properties()</code>).</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>Spatial Searching</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Add function <code>Kd_tree::remove(Point)</code>.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h3>3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add a template parameter to <code>AABB_traits</code>
        for a property map that associates a bounding box to a primitive</li>
  </ul>
  <h3>CGAL and the Boost Graph Library</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Add a partial specialization for the
      class <code>CGAL::Linear_cell_complex_for_combinatorial_map</code> so
      that it is a model of the graph
      concepts <code>BidirectionalGraph</code> and
      <code>EdgeAndVertexListGraph</code> and of the
      concept <code>MutableFaceGraph</code>. This class can thus now be
      used in all BGL functions and algorithms.
    </li>
    <li>Helper functions to create an icosahedron, a regular prism and a 
      pyramid have been added.
    </li>
    <li>
      Add class <code>CGAL::Face_filtered_graph</code> that
      wraps an existing graph and hide all simplices that are not
      in the selected connected components.
    </li>
    <li>
      Added the
      class <code>CGAL::Seam_mesh</code>. The <code>Seam_mesh</code> is a
      graph adaptor which allows to create virtual borders when marking
      edges as seam edges.
    </li>
     <li>Add the functions <code>read_off()</code>
     and <code>write_off()</code>.
    </li>
  </ul>
