---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.10 released"
description: "CGAL 4.10"
category: 
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-4.10">Download CGAL-4.10</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/4.10/Manual/index.html">CGAL-4.10 documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 4.10 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2016/09/19/cgal-49">CGAL 4.9</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### Installation

-   The minimum required version of CMake is now 3.1. All CMake versions
    up to 3.7 are supported.
-   The compilation of some demo may require a C++11 compiler. The CGAL
    library itself still support C++03 compilers.
-   The shell script `cgal_create_cmake_script` now enables C++14 by
    default.
-   A new mechanism to check which packages of CGAL are used have been
    added. It is particularly interesting for commercial users to ensure
    they have a valid commercial license for the packages they used.
    This can also be used to make sure only LGPL header files are used.
-   Because of a bug in the g++ compiler about the C++11 keyword
    `thread_local`, the CGAL\_Core library now always requires
    `Boost.Thread` if the g++ compiler is used.

### Generalized Maps (new package)

-   This package implements Generalized Maps in d dimensions. A
    generalized map is a data structure enabling to represent an
    orientable or non orientable subdivided object by describing all the
    cells of the subdivision (for example in 3D vertices, edges, faces,
    volumes) and all the incidence and adjacency relationships between
    these cells. This data structure is the generalization of the
    combinatorial maps in order to be able to represent non orientable
    objects.

### 3D Point Set (new package)

-   This package provides a flexible data structure `CGAL::Point_set_3`
    that allows the user to easily handle point sets with an arbitrary
    number of attributes (such as normal vectors, colors, labeling,
    etc.).

### Combinatorial Maps and Linear cell complex

-   **Breaking change**: the requirements of the item class used to
    customize a combinatorial map and a linear cell complex changed.
    Instead of defining the type of darts used, you have to define the
    information you want to add in each dart. You can define the
    `CGAL_CMAP_DART_DEPRECATED` macro to keep the old behavior.

### Triangulated Surface Mesh Shortest Paths

-   **Breaking change**: Rename all functions, types, and enums using
    *barycentric coordinate* to *barycentric coordinates*.

### CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (BGL)

-   **Breaking change**: Addition of a free function `reserve()` in the
    concept `MutableFaceGraph`. Models provided by CGAL have been
    updated.

### 2D and 3D Linear Geometry Kernel

-   **Breaking change**: The function `compare_slopes()` was renamed
    `compare_slope`.
-   Added a 2D and 3D weighted point class and predicates and
    constructions.
-   Added functions `l_infinity_distance()` for 2D and 3D.
-   Added a new functor in CGAL Kernel concept to compare the slope of two
    3D segments. All models of the Kernel concept now provide the
    functor `Compare_slope_3`, and the free function `compare_slope()`
    is available.
-   Added an operator in CGAL Kernel concept `Angle_3` to qualify the
    angle between the normal of the triangle given by three points, and
    a vector.

### 3D Convex Hull

-   The convex hull function can also produce a `Surface_mesh`, and
    generally speaking any model of the concept `MutableFaceGraph`
-   The function `convex_hull_3_to_polyhedron_3()` is deprecated and
    `convex_hull_3_to_face_graph.h` should be used instead.
-   The class `Convex_hull_traits_3` now documents a nested type
    `Polygon_mesh` instead of `Polyhedron_3`. The other nested type is
    kept for backward compatibility.
-   Removed the function `CGAL::convex_hull_incremental_3()` deprecated
    since CGAL 4.6.

### 3D Boolean Operations on Nef Polyhedra

-   Added a new constructor from a face graph model

### Linear cell complex

-   Deprecated class `Linear_cell_complex` which is now renamed
    `Linear_cell_complex_for_combinatorial_map_dart`.

### 2D Triangulation data structure

-   Added function `insert_in_hole`.

### 2D Triangulations

-   **Breaking change**: Removed the arbitrary dimensional weighted
    point class. Users must use a version prior to 4.9 if they need this
    class.
-   **Breaking change**:The number type of weighted points in regular
    triangulations is no longer a template parameter but the field type
    of the geometric traits class. Users who need this feature must use
    a version prior to 4.9
-   The class `Regular_triangulation_filtered_traits_2` deprecated since
    CGAL 3.6 has been removed.
-   Deprecated the class `Regular_triangulation_euclidean_traits_2`, as
    the weighted point and the function objects for weighted points are
    part of the concept `Kernel`/
-   The class `Regular_triangulation_2` can take a kernel as template
    argument, that is one no longer has to use
    `Regular_triangulation_euclidea_traits_2`, although this still
    works.

### 3D Triangulations

-   **Breaking change**: The number type of weighted points in regular
    triangulations is no longer a template parameter but the field type
    of the geometric traits class. Users who need this feature must use
    a version prior to 4.9.
-   The class `Regular_triangulation_filtered_traits_3` deprecated since
    CGAL 3.6 has been removed.
-   Deprecated the class `Regular_triangulation_euclidean_traits_3`, as
    the weighted point and the function objects for weighted points are
    part of the concept `Kernel`/
-   The class `Regular_triangulation_3` can take a kernel as template
    argument, that is one no longer has to use
    `Regular_triangulation_euclidean_traits_3`, although this still
    works.
-   Added function `link_to_face_graph()` to copy the set of faces
    incident to a vertex into a model of `FaceGraph`.

### 3D Mesh Generation

-   The constructor
    `CGAL::Polyhedral_mesh_domain_with_features_3(std::string)` is
    deprecated.

### Polygon Mesh Processing

-   Added fast and robust corefinement and Boolean operation functions for
    triangulated surface meshes:
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::corefine_and_compute_union()`
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::corefine_and_compute_difference()`
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::corefine_and_compute_intersection()`
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::corefine()`
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::does_bound_a_volume()`
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::surface_intersection()`
-   Added functions to compute approximated Hausdorff distances between
    two meshes, a mesh and a point set, or a point set and a mesh:
    `sample_triangle_mesh()`, `approximated_Hausdorff_distance()`,
    `approximated_symmetric_Hausdorff_distance()`,
    `max_distance_to_triangle_mesh()`, `max_distance_to_point_set()`.
-   The function `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::bbox_3()` has been
    renamed `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::bbox()`.

### Point Set Processing

-   Function `CGAL::remove_outliers()` has an additional parameter based
    on a distance threshold to make it easier and more intuitive to use.
-   New functions for automatic scale estimations: either a global scale
    or multiple local scales can be estimated for both 2D and 3D point
    sets based on the assumption that they sample a curve in 2D or a
    surface in 3D.

### CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (BGL)

-   Added function `CGAL::convert_nef_polyhedron_to_polygon_mesh()` to
    convert a `Nef_polyhedron_3` to any model of the `MutableFaceGraph`
    concept.
-   Added class `CGAL::Graph_with_descriptor_with_graph` that wraps an
    existing graph and provides a reference to the said graph to all of
    its descriptors.

### Cone Based Spanners

-   Added a parameter to compute half Tao graph and half Theta graph.
-   Added an ipelet for this package.

### Geometric Object Generators

-   Added the following point random generators:
    -   in a 3D triangle mesh model of the concept `FaceListGraph`
        (`CGAL::Random_points_in_triangle_mesh_3`),
    -   on the boundary of a tetrahedral mesh
        (`CGAL::Random_points_in_tetrahedral_mesh_boundary_3`),
    -   in a tetrahedral mesh
        (`CGAL::Random_points_in_tetrahedral_mesh_3`),
    -   in a 2D triangle mesh
        (`CGAL::Random_points_in_triangle_mesh_2`),
    -   in a range of 2D or 3D triangles
        (`CGAL::Random_points_in_triangles_3` and
        `CGAL::Random_points_in_triangles_2`).
    -   on a 3D segment (`CGAL::Random_points_on_segment_3`).
</div>
