---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.10"
description: "CGAL 4.10 released"
category: 
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<a href="http://doc.cgal.org/4.10/Manual/index.html">Link to the
CGAL-4.10 documentation</a>

<a href="/download/4.10">Download link for CGAL-4.10</a>

  <h3>Installation</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>The minimum required version of CMake is now 3.1. All CMake
      versions up to 3.7 are supported.</li>
    <li>The compilation of some demo may require a C++11 compiler. The
      CGAL library itself still support C++03 compilers.</li>
    <li>The shell script <code>cgal_create_cmake_script</code> now enables
      C++14 by default.</li>
    <li>A new mechanism to check which packages of CGAL are used have been
        added.  It is particularly interesting for commercial users to
        ensure they have a valid commercial license for the packages they
        used. This can also be used to make sure only LGPL header files are
        used.</li>
    <li>Because of a bug in the g++ compiler about the C++11
    keyword <code>thread_local</code>, the CGAL_Core library now always
    requires <code>Boost.Thread</code> if the g++ compiler is used.</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Generalized Maps (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      This package implements Generalized Maps in d dimensions. A
      generalized map is a data structure enabling to represent an
      orientable or non orientable subdivided object by describing all the
      cells of the subdivision (for example in 3D vertices, edges, faces,
      volumes) and all the incidence and adjacency relationships between
      these cells. This data structure is the generalization of the
      combinatorial maps in order to be able to represent non orientable
      objects.</li>
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>3D Point Set (new package)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>This package provides a flexible data
    structure <code>CGAL::Point_set_3</code> that allows the user to
    easily handle point sets with an arbitrary number of attributes
    (such as normal vectors, colors, labeling, etc.).</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Combinatorial Maps and Linear cell complex</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <b>Breaking change</b>: the requirements of the item class used to
      customize a combinatorial map and a linear cell complex
      changed. Instead of defining the type of darts used, you have to
      define the information you want to add in each dart. You can define
      the <code>CGAL_CMAP_DART_DEPRECATED</code> macro to keep the old
      behavior.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Triangulated Surface Mesh Shortest Paths</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <b>Breaking change</b>: Rename all functions, types, and enums
      using <i>barycentric coordinate</i> to <i>barycentric
        coordinates</i>.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (BGL)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <b>Breaking change</b>: Addition of a free
      function <code>reserve()</code> in the
      concept <code>MutableFaceGraph</code>.  Models provided by CGAL have
      been updated.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>2D and 3D Linear Geometry Kernel</h3>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: The function <code>compare_slopes()</code>
        was renamed <code>compare_slope</code>.  </li>
    <li>Added a 2D and 3D weighted point class and predicates and constructions.
    </li>
    <li>
      Add functions <code>l_infinity_distance()</code> for 2D and 3D.
    </li>
    <li>Add a new functor in CGAL Kernel concept to compare the slope of
        two 3D segments.  All models of the Kernel concept now provide the
        functor <code>Compare_slope_3</code>, and the free function
        <code>compare_slope()</code> is available.  </li>
    <li>Add an operator in CGAL Kernel concept <code>Angle_3</code> to
        qualify the angle between the normal of the triangle given by three
        points, and a vector.</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>3D Convex Hull</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>The convex hull function can also produce
      a <code>Surface_mesh</code>, and generally speaking any model of the
      concept <code>MutableFaceGraph</code></li>
    <li>The function <code>convex_hull_3_to_polyhedron_3()</code> is
      deprecated and <code>convex_hull_3_to_face_graph.h</code> should be
      used instead.</li>
    <li>The class <code>Convex_hull_traits_3</code> now documents a nested
      type <code>Polygon_mesh</code> instead
      of <code>Polyhedron_3</code>. The other nested type is kept for
      backward compatibility.</li>
    <li>Remove the function <code>CGAL::convex_hull_incremental_3()</code>
      deprecated since CGAL 4.6.</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>3D Boolean Operations on Nef Polyhedra</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add a new constructor from a face graph model</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Linear cell complex</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Deprecate class <code>Linear_cell_complex</code> which is now
      renamed <code>Linear_cell_complex_for_combinatorial_map_dart</code>.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3> 2D Triangulation data structure </h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Add function <code>insert_in_hole</code>.
    </li>
  </ul>

 <h3>2D Triangulations</h3>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: Removed the arbitrary dimensional weighted
      point class.  Users must use a version prior to 4.9 if they need this
      class.</li>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>:The number type of weighted points in
      regular triangulations is no longer a template parameter but the
      field type of the geometric traits class.  Users who need this
      feature must use a version prior to 4.9</li>
    <li>The class <code>Regular_triangulation_filtered_traits_2</code>
      deprecated since CGAL 3.6 has been removed.</li>
    <li>Deprecate the
      class <code>Regular_triangulation_euclidean_traits_2</code>, as the
      weighted point and the function objects for weighted points are part
      of the concept <code>Kernel</code>/</li>
    <li>The class <code>Regular_triangulation_2</code> can take a kernel as
      template argument, that is one no longer has to
      use <code>Regular_triangulation_euclidea_traits_2</code>, although
      this still works.</li>
  </ul>

 <h3>3D Triangulations</h3>
  <ul>
    <li><b>Breaking change</b>: The number type of weighted points in
      regular triangulations is no longer a template parameter but the
      field type of the geometric traits class.  Users who need this
      feature must use a version prior to 4.9.</li>
    <li>The class <code>Regular_triangulation_filtered_traits_3</code>
      deprecated since CGAL 3.6 has been removed.</li>
    <li>Deprecate the
      class <code>Regular_triangulation_euclidean_traits_3</code>, as the
      weighted point and the function objects for weighted points are part
      of the concept <code>Kernel</code>/</li>
    <li>The class <code>Regular_triangulation_3</code> can take a kernel as
      template argument, that is one no longer has to
      use <code>Regular_triangulation_euclidean_traits_3</code>, although
      this still works.</li>
    <li>
      Add function <code>link_to_face_graph()</code> to copy the set of
      faces incident to a vertex into a model of <code>FaceGraph</code>.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3> 3D Mesh Generation </h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      The constructor <code>CGAL::Polyhedral_mesh_domain_with_features_3(std::string)</code> is deprecated.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Polygon Mesh Processing</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add fast and robust corefinement and Boolean operation functions
      for triangulated surface meshes:
      <ul>
        <li> <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::corefine_and_compute_union()</code> </li>
        <li> <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::corefine_and_compute_difference()</code> </li>
        <li> <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::corefine_and_compute_intersection()</code> </li>
        <li> <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::corefine()</code> </li>
        <li> <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::does_bound_a_volume()</code> </li>
        <li> <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::surface_intersection()</code> </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
     Add functions to compute approximated Hausdorff distances between two
     meshes, a mesh and a point set, or a point set and a mesh:
     <code>sample_triangle_mesh()</code>,
     <code>approximated_Hausdorff_distance()</code>,
     <code>approximated_symmetric_Hausdorff_distance()</code>,
     <code>max_distance_to_triangle_mesh()</code>,
     <code>max_distance_to_point_set()</code>.
    </li>
    <li>
    The function <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::bbox_3()</code> has
    been renamed <code>CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::bbox()</code>.
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Point Set Processing</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Function <code>CGAL::remove_outliers()</code> has an
    additional parameter based on a distance threshold to make it
    easier and more intuitive to use.</li>
    <li>New functions for automatic scale estimations: either a global
    scale or multiple local scales can be estimated for both 2D and 3D
    point sets based on the assumption that they sample a curve in 2D
      or a surface in 3D.</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (BGL)</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Add
      function <code>CGAL::convert_nef_polyhedron_to_polygon_mesh()</code> to
      convert a <code>Nef_polyhedron_3</code> to any model of
      the <code>MutableFaceGraph</code> concept.
    </li>
    <li>
      Add class <code>CGAL::Graph_with_descriptor_with_graph</code> that
      wraps an existing graph and provides a reference to the said graph to
      all of its descriptors.
    </li>
  </ul>
  
  <h3>Cone Based Spanners</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>Add a parameter to compute half Tao graph and half Theta graph.</li>
    <li>Add an ipelet for this package.</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Geometric Object Generators</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Add point random generators
      <ul>
        <li>in a 3D triangle mesh model of the
          concept <code>FaceListGraph</code>
          (<code>CGAL::Random_points_in_triangle_mesh_3</code>),</li>
        <li>on the boundary of a tetrahedral mesh
          (<code>CGAL::Random_points_in_tetrahedral_mesh_boundary_3</code>),</li>
        <li>in a tetrahedral mesh
          (<code>CGAL::Random_points_in_tetrahedral_mesh_3</code>),</li>
        <li>in a 2D triangle mesh
          (<code>CGAL::Random_points_in_triangle_mesh_2</code>),</li>
        <li>in a range of 2D or 3D triangles
          (<code>CGAL::Random_points_in_triangles_3</code>
          and <code>CGAL::Random_points_in_triangles_2</code>).</li>
        <li>on a 3D segment
          (<code>CGAL::Random_points_on_segment_3</code>).</li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
