---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.12"
description: "CGAL 4.12 released"
category: 
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<a href="http://doc.cgal.org/4.12/Manual/index.html">Link to the
CGAL-4.12 documentation</a>

<a href="/download/4.12">Download link for CGAL-4.12</a>

### Important Notice

-   The CMake scripts used by CGAL have been changed to use modern patterns
    introduced by CMake 2.8.12 and CMake 3.0: instead of setting CMake
    variables, the script now defines imported targets and uses link
    interfaces.
    
    That is mostly backward-compatible with existing usages of CGAL CMake
    scripts. The only non-compatible effect is that the `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`
    and compilation flags are no longer copied from the `CGAL_DIR` to the
    project using it. Note also that the `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` is no longer
    set to `Release` by default. For a developer using the Visual Studio
    IDE or the Xcode IDE, the change should be transparent. Developers using
    makefiles or the Ninja build-system should set the `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`
    to `Release` manually, to avoid using CGAL libraries without any
    compile-time optimization.

### Header-only Mode

-   Since CGAL-4.9, it has been possible to use CGAL by configuring it
    using CMake, but without compiling the CGAL libraries. With CGAL-4.12,
    it is now possible to use CGAL header-only, without even configuring
    it. CMake is then used only to configure programs using CGAL.

### Compiler Support

-   The Microsoft Visual C++ 2017 version 15.3 has introduced support for
    C++17, with the compilation flag `/std:c++17`. CGAL 4.12 has an initial
    support for that flag: the code will compile, but a lot of deprecation
    warnings will remain. Note that Boost version 1.67 is the first version
    of Boost supporting `/std:c++17`.

-   The compilation flag `/permissive-` of Visual C++ is now supported.

### 2D Movable Separability of Sets (new package)

-   A new package called "2D Movable Separability of Sets" has been
    introduced. It handles a class of problems that deal with moving
    sets of objects in the plane; the challenge is to avoid collisions
    between the objects while considering different kinds of motions and
    various definitions of separation.

    At this point this package consists of the implementations of
    various predicates and constructions related to castings of
    polygonal objects. In particular, it can be used to determine
    whether a feasible mold for a polygonal object does exist. If a mold
    exists, the package can also be used to compute all possible
    orientations of the feasible molds and the corresponding motions
    needed to remove the casted object from the mold.

### Classification (new package)

-   This package offers an algorithm that classifies a data set into a
    user-defined set of labels (such as ground, vegetation, buildings,
    etc.). A flexible API is provided so that users can classify any
    type of data, compute their own local features on the input data
    set, and define their own labels.

### Kinetic Data Structures (removed package)

-   This package has been removed from CGAL-4.12. Users of the package
    will have to keep using the source code available in CGAL-4.11 or
    earlier.


### 3D Convex Hull

-   **Breaking change**: The header `<CGAL/convex_hull_3.h>` no longer
    includes `<CGAL/Polyhedron_3.h>`, as the convex hull function works
    with any model of the concept `MutableFaceGraph`.

### 2D Arrangements

-   When removing an edge from an arrangement and the user has requested to
    remove the end-vertices in case they become redundant (either isolated or
    approach infinity), defer the removal of the such end-vertices to occur
    after the observer is notified that the edge has been removed. This is
    symmetric (opposite) to the order of notification when an edge is inserted.

    The user can restore old (non-symmetric) behaviour by defining the macro:

    `CGAL_NON_SYMETRICAL_OBSERVER_EDGE_REMOVAL_BACKWARD_COMPATIBILITY`

### 2D Periodic Triangulations

-   **Breaking change**: The class
    `Periodic_2_triangulation_hierarchy_vertex_base_2` (and its
    corresponding header) have been removed. Users should directly use
    the class `Triangulation_hierarchy_vertex_base_2`, which is
    identical.
-   **Breaking change**: The functions `circumcenter()`,
    `side_of_oriented_circle()`, and `is_extensible_in_1_sheet_h[12]()`
    are related to Delaunay triangulations and have been moved from
    `Periodic_2_triangulation_2` to
    `Periodic_2_Delaunay_triangulation_2`.

### 2D Alpha Shapes

-   It is now possible to use `CGAL::Periodic_2_triangulation_2` as
    underlying triangulation for `Alpha_shape_2`.

### 3D Surface Mesh Generation

-   Add the function `facets_in_complex_2_to_triangle_mesh()` that
    exports `Surface_mesh_complex_2_in_triangulation_3` facets into
    a `MutableFaceGraph`.

### 3D Mesh Generation

-   Add the function `facets_in_complex_3_to_triangle_mesh()` that
    exports `Mesh_complex_3_in_triangulation_3` facets into a
    `MutableFaceGraph`.
-   **Breaking change:** The concept `MeshDomainWithFeatures_3` has been
    modified, to improve the performance and the reliability of the
    sampling of 1D curves of the domain.
-   Add the ability to ensure that the output mesh surface describes a
    manifold, when the input surface is a manifold. New named parameters
    `manifold()`, `manifold_with_boundary()`, and `non_manifold()` are
    added.

### Optimal Transportation Curve Reconstruction

-   New method `run_under_wasserstein_tolerance()` which allows the
    user to perform curve reconstruction by relying on a threshold on
    the Wasserstein distance. This is useful when the number of edges
    in the expected output reconstruction is not known.

### Polygon Mesh Processing

-   Added two functions for orienting connected components :
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::orient()`
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::orient_to_bound_a_volume()`

-   Added a new function for intersection tests between triangle meshes
    and/or polylines or range of polylines, and another one to report
    all the pairs of meshes intersecting from a range of meshes:
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::do_intersect()`
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::intersecting_meshes()`

-   Added new functions for feature detection and feature-guided
    segmentation:
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::detect_sharp_edges()`
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::detect_vertex_incident_patches()`
    -   `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::sharp_edges_segmentation()`

### Point Set Shape Detection

-   **Breaking change**:
    `CGAL::Shape_detection_3::Efficient_RANSAC_traits` is now called
    `CGAL::Shape_detection_3::Shape_detection_traits`.
-   New algorithm: `CGAL::Region_growing`. This is a deterministic
    alternative to RANSAC for plane detection.
-   **Breaking change**: the API of `CGAL::regularize_planes()` is
    generalized to accept other types of input than the RANSAC output.
-   Add a callback mechanism for both `CGAL::Efficient_RANSAC` and
    `CGAL::Region_growing`.

### Point Set Processing

-   **Breaking change**: the API of `CGAL::structure_point_set()` is
    generalized to accept other types of input than the RANSAC output.
-   **Breaking change**: the API of all functions of Point Set
    Processing is modified to use ranges (instead of iterators) and
    Named Parameters (similarly to the API of Polygon Mesh
    Processing). The old API is kept as deprecated.

### CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (BGL)

-   Added helper function `CGAL::expand_face_selection_for_removal` that
    expands a face selection to avoid creating a non manifold mesh when
    removing the selected faces.

-   Added support for dynamic property maps.

-   Added an interface to the [METIS library], which allows to partition
    any mesh that is a model of `FaceListGraph`.  Wrappers to the
    METIS functions `METIS_PartMeshNodal` and `METIS_PartMeshDual` are
    offered.

    [METIS library]: http://glaros.dtc.umn.edu/gkhome/metis/metis/overview

