---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.13 released"
description: "CGAL 4.13"
category: 
tags: ["release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

The CGAL Open Source Project is pleased to announce the release 4.13.

<i class="bi bi-arrow-down-circle"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-4.13">Download CGAL-4.13</a>

<i class="bi bi-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/4.13/Manual/index.html">CGAL-4.13 documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 4.13 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2018/04/25/cgal412">CGAL 4.12</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### 3D Periodic Mesh Generation (new package)

-   This package generates 3-dimensional periodic meshes. It computes
    isotropic simplicial meshes for domains described through implicit
    functional boundaries over the flat torus (which can also seen in
    the Euclidean space as a periodic cube). The output is a periodic
    3D mesh of the domain volume and conformal surface meshes for all
    the boundary and subdividing surfaces.  The package is closely
    related to the 3D Mesh Generation package, with similar concepts,
    classes, and API. See <a href="../../../../2018/09/10/Periodic_Mesh_Generation">this post</a>
    for a quick overview of this new package.

### Installation

-   The library `CGAL_Qt5` now contains a fork of the version 2.7.0 of
    `libQGLViewer`.  The corresponding code is in the package
    `GraphicsView`.  The dependency for the external library
    `libQGLViewer` is therefore dropped for all demos.

### General

 -  A new function `CGAL::draw()` is added in the packages Polyhedral
    Surface, Surface Mesh, Linear Cell Complex, 2D Triangulations, and
    3D Triangulations, enabling to draw the corresponding data
    structures.

### 2D and 3D Linear Geometry Kernel

-   An `operator()` that takes a `Ray_3` has been added to the concept
    `ConstructProjectedPoint_3`.

### Convex Hull 3

-   Added the function `extreme_points_3()` computing the points on
    the convex hull without underlying connectivity.
-   Added a traits adapter called `Extreme_points_traits_adapter_3`
    that enables the use of the function `extreme_points_3()` on a
    range of keys, each key being associated to 3D point using a
    property map.  This can be used to get the vertices of a mesh that
    are on it convex hull, or the indices of points in a range that
    are on it convex hull.
-   Fix a bug in the computation of the 3D convex hull that was
    leaving extra points within subset of coplanar points that do not
    belong to the minimal convex hull.


### 2D and 3D Triangulations

-   Added a new type of intersection to handle the insertion of
    intersecting constraints in a `Constrained_triangulation_2`.
-   **Breaking change:** The long-deprecated class
    `Triangulation_cell_base_with_circumcenter_3` and its associated
    concept have been removed. Users should use the classes
    `Delaunay_cell_base_with_circumcenter_3` or
    `Regular_cell_base_with_circumcenter_3`, depending on which type
    of triangulation they are using.
-   **Breaking change:** The deprecated functions `mirror_index` and
    `mirror_vertex` of the class `Triangulation_face_base_2` have been
    removed. Users should use the equivalent functions from the class
    `Triangulation_2`.

### 3D Mesh Generation

-   **Breaking change:** The template parameters of the class template
    `Labeled_mesh_domain_3` have been simplified. The three
    constructors of that class template have been replaced by a new
    unique constructor using Boost named parameters. Three new static
    template member functions that act as named constructors have been
    added:
      - `create_gray_image_mesh_domain()`, to create a domain from a 3D
        gray image,
      - `create_labeled_image_mesh_domain()`, to create a domain from a 3D
        labeled image, and
      - `create_implicit_mesh_domain()`, to create a domain from an
        implicit function.
-   The class templates `Implicit_mesh_domain_3`,
    `Gray_image_mesh_domain_3`, and `Labeled_image_mesh_domain_3` are
    now deprecated.
-   **Breaking change:** The headers
    `<CGAL/Mesh_3/Implicit_to_labeled_function_wrapper.h>` and
    `<CGAL/Mesh_3/Labeled_mesh_domain_3.h>`, that were deprecated
    since CGAL 4.5, have been removed.
-   **Breaking change:** the concepts `MeshCellCriteria_3` and
    `MeshFacetCriteria_3` now require the triangulation to be passed
    in their `operator()`.  Models of these concepts that are provided
    by CGAL have been modified accordingly.
-   **Breaking change:** It is no longer possible to use the
    deprecated, pre-CGAL 3.8 specifications in `MeshCellCriteria_3`
    and `MeshFacetCriteria_3` (that is, using `Facet_badness` and
    `Cell_badness` instead of `Is_facet_bad` and `Is_cell_bad`).
-   The concept `MeshFacetCriteria_3` no longer requires the function
    `operator()(Cell_handle c, int i)`.
-   The concept `MeshEdgeCriteria_3` no longer requires the function
    `operator()(const Edge& e)`.
-   The concept `MeshComplexWithFeatures_3InTriangulation_3` no longer
    requires the functions `number_of_edges(Curve_index index)` and
    `number_of_corners(Corner_index index)`.
-   Introduced the concept `MeshTriangulationTraits_3`, which covers
    the needs of the traits class used in `Mesh_3` (and
    `Periodic_3_mesh_3`). The traits class used as template parameter
    of `Mesh_triangulation_3` and `Periodic_3_mesh_triangulation_3`
    must be a model of this concept.
-   Added the function
    `Mesh_domain_with_polyline_features_3::add_corner()`, which allows
    users to add a single corner (that is not incident to any
    polyline) to the mesh complex.
-   **Breaking change**: `CGAL::lloyd_optimize_mesh_3` now depends on
    the _Eigen_ library.

### Polygon Mesh Processing

-   Added a named parameter in stitching functions that allows to
    choose whether the operation should be performed per connected
    component or globally.
-   Added a function, `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::transform()`, to
    apply a transformation to a mesh.
-   Added a named parameter `visitor` in corefinement-related
    functions that makes it possible to pass a visitor to the function
    in order to track the creation of new faces.
-   Added a named parameter `throw_on_self_intersection` in all
    corefinement-related functions, which enables to check for
    self-intersecting faces involved in the intersection before trying
    to corefine the input meshes. This new parameter replaces the
    `bool` parameter in `corefine()`.
-   Added the function `corefine_and_compute_boolean_operations()`,
    which can be used to compute the result of several Boolean
    operations between two volumes at the same time.
-   Added the function `clip()`, which can be used to clip a
    triangulated surface mesh by a plane or a clipping volume.
-   Constrained vertices are now guaranteed to be kept in the mesh
    after calling `isotropic_remeshing()` (and not only the points
    associated to constrained vertices, as it was before).
-   Added a function, `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::extrude_mesh()`,
    to perform an extrusion of an open polygon mesh.

### Estimation of Local Differential Properties of Point-Sampled Surfaces Reference

-   **Breaking change**: `CGAL::Monge_via_jet_fitting` now depends on
    the _Eigen_ library.

### Point Set Processing

-   Added a callback mechanism to the following functions:
    `CGAL::bilateral_smooth_point_set()`,
    `CGAL::compute_average_spacing()`,
    `CGAL::grid_simplify_point_set()`,
    `CGAL::hierarchy_simplify_point_set()`,
    `CGAL::jet_estimate_normals()`, `CGAL::jet_smooth_point_set()`,
    `CGAL::pca_estimate_normals()`, `CGAL::remove_outliers()` and
    `CGAL::wlop_simplify_and_regularize_point_set()`.


### Classification 

-   Added data structures to handle classification of Surface Meshes
    and of Clusters.
-   Added public API to compute features in parallel.
-   **Breaking change**: features based on products/divisions of
    eigenvalues are replaced by simple eigenvalue features. Features
    based on statistics on the HSV color channels are replaced by
    simple HSV color channel features.
-   **Breaking change**: the API of
    `CGAL::Classification::Point_set_feature_generator` has been
    simplified.

### Bounding Volumes

-   **Breaking change**: `CGAL::Approximate_min_ellipsoid_d` now
    depends on the _Eigen_ library.

### Interpolation

-   The output of the natural and regular neighbor functions
    (resp. the gradient fitting functions) is no longer restricted to
    a Point/Coordinate pair (resp. Point/Vector pair). Instead, users
    can provide their own functor to format the output as they desire.
-   The interpolation functions can now operate on any combination of
    Type/Coordinate, provided that the values and gradients functors
    can also be evaluated using 'Type'.
    The combination of these two changes allow, for example, to
    operate with Vertex/Coordinate pairs, which enables a more
    efficient access to values and gradients by storing information
    directly in the vertex.
-   The concepts `InterpolationTraits` and `GradientFittingTraits`
    have been updated to reflect the real needs of the code (some
    types and operators were used in the code but did not appear in
    the concepts).

### CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (BGL)

-   Added a helper function, `CGAL::is_valid_polygon_mesh`, that
    checks the validity of a polygon mesh using BGL functions.
-   Improved the function `CGAL::Euler::collapse_edge` such that the
    target vertex of the collapsed edge is now always kept after the
    collapse.
-   The function `copy_face_graph()` now uses named parameters, some
    allowing it to use property maps instead of output iterators.
-   Addition of the following named parameters : 
    -   vertex_to_vertex_output_iterator
    -   halfedge_to_halfedge_output_iterator
    -   face_to_face_output_iterator
    -   vertex_to_vertex_map
    -   halfedge_to_halfedge_map
    -   face_to_face_map

### CGAL and Solvers

-   **Breaking change**: `CGAL::Diagonalize_traits` is now deprecated
    and should not be used. The class `CGAL::Eigen_diagonalize_traits`
    (along with the _Eigen_ library) should be used instead.

### CGAL and Boost Property Maps

-   Added a read-write property map to convert on-the-fly geometric
    objects from Cartesian kernels.
</div>
