---
layout: post
title: "CGAL 4.14 beta1 released"
description: "CGAL 4.14 beta1"
category:
tags: ["active-beta-release"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-download"></i>
<a href="https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/releases/tag/releases%2FCGAL-4.14-beta1">Download CGAL-4.14-beta1</a>

<i class="glyphicon glyphicon-book"></i>
<a href="https://doc.cgal.org/4.14/Manual/index.html">CGAL-4.14-beta1 documentation</a>

<p>CGAL 4.14 offers the following improvements and new functionality over
<a href="../../../../2018/10/01/cgal413">CGAL 4.13</a>:</p>

<div class="product-detail-info" markdown="1">

## Changelog

### 2D Periodic Hyperbolic Triangulations (new package)

 -   This package allows the computation of Delaunay triangulations of
     the Bolza surface.  The Bolza surface is the most symmetric
     hyperbolic surface of genus 2. Its fundamental domain is the
     regular hyperbolic octagon with angles π/4 centered at the origin
     of the Poincaré disk. Triangulations of the Bolza surface can be
     seen as triangulations of the hyperbolic plane that are periodic
     in the four directions defined by the sides of this regular
     octagon.

### 2D Hyperbolic Triangulations (new package)

 -   This package allows the computation of Delaunay Triangulations of
     sets of points in the Poincaré disk, which is one of the
     conformal models for the hyperbolic plane.

### The Heat Method (new package)

-   This package provides an algorithm that solves the single- or
    multiple-source shortest path problem by returning an
    approximation of the geodesic distance for all vertices of a
    triangle mesh to the closest vertex in a given set of source
    vertices.

### Triangulated Surface Mesh Approximation (new package)

-   This package implements the Variational Shape Approximation method
    to approximate an input surface triangle mesh by a simpler surface
    triangle mesh.

### Polygon Mesh Processing package

-   Added the following new functions to detect and repair issues in
    polygon soups:
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::remove_isolated_points_in_polygon_soup()`,
       which detects and removes points that are not used in any
       polygon of the soup.
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::merge_duplicate_points_in_polygon_soup()`,
       which detects and merges points that share the same geometric
       position.
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::merge_duplicate_polygons_in_polygon_soup()`,
       which detects and merges polygons that are identical.
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::repair_polygon_soup()`, which
       applies a number of repairing steps (a subset of which are the
       functions above) to clean and repair a polygon soup.

-   Added the following new functions to detect and repair
    degeneracies in polygon meshes:
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::degenerate_edges()`
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::degenerate_faces()`
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::is_non_manifold_vertex()`
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::is_degenerate_triangle_face()`
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::is_degenerate_edge()`
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::is_needle_triangle_face()`
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::is_cap_triangle_face()`
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::duplicate_non_manifold_vertices()`
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::extract_boundary_cycles()`
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::merge_duplicated_vertices_in_boundary_cycle()`
    - `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::merge_duplicated_vertices_in_boundary_cycles()`

-   Added the class `CGAL::Rigid_triangle_mesh_collision_detection` to
    detect intersections between meshes and volumes undergoing affine
    transformations.

### Regularized Boolean Set Operations in 2D package

-   Fixed the validation of orientation of relative simple polygons.

### Point Set Processing

-   `CGAL::mst_orient_normals()` can now be called with a set of
    user-selected seed points that are known to be already oriented. A
    new optional named parameter `point_is_constrained_map` is added
    for this purpose. The original behavior (using one unique and
    automatically selected seed) is kept if this parameter is not
    used.

### Classification

-   Added a new experimental classifier
    `TensorFlow::Neural_network_classifier`.

-   For uniformity, `ETHZ_random_forest_classifier` is renamed
    `ETHZ::Random_forest_classifier` and
    `OpenCV_random_forest_classifier` is renamed
    `OpenCV::Random_forest_classifier`.

-   The training algorithm of `ETHZ::Random_forest_classifier` was
    parallelized.

-   Added a constructor to copy a `ETHZ::Random_forest_classifier`
    using a different data set as input.

-   Added 3 new geometric features, `Height_above`, `Height_below` and
    `Vertical_range`.

### 3D Fast Intersection and Distance Computation

-   The primitives `AABB_face_graph_triangle_primitive` and
    `AABB_halfedge_graph_segment_primitive` now use as `Id` a pair of
    descriptor and graph pointer in the case they are configured to
    deal with a possible different graph per primitive (configuration
    set using a template tag).

### 2D Arrangements

-   Fixed a bug in the surface-sweep framework (`Surface_sweep_2`)
    that ensures that an event is never left without (left or right)
    curves.

-   Fixed a constructor of `Arr_counting_traits.h`. (In particular,
    added missing const of a parameter).

-   Fixed zone computation of a curve in cases where the lexicographic
    smallest end of the curve lies on the parameter space.

-   Implemented missing function object `Compare_x_near_boundary` of
    `Arr_polyline_traits_2`, `Arr_polycurve_traits_2`, and
    `Arr_polycurve_basic_traits_2`.

### 2D and 3D Mesh Generation

-   Added two functions for writing in XML VTK formats:
    - `CGAL::write_vtu()`, that writes a 2D mesh in a `.vtu` file,
    - `CGAL::output_to_vtu()`, that writes a 3D mesh in a `.vtu` file.

### 2D Minkowski Sums

-   Fixed a bug in the function that computed the Minkowski sum using
    the reduced-convolution method. In particular, correctly handled
    the case where one of the summands does not have an outer
    boundary.

### 3D Point Set

-   Added a method `copy_properties()` that allows to copy the
    properties from a point set to another one (without copying the
    content);

-   Added a method `insert(const Point_set&, const Index&)` to copy a
    point along with all its associated properties from another point
    set;

-   `remove()` methods now only invalidate the `end()` iterator
    instead of invalidating all iterators;

-   Added a method `is_removed()` that takes an index as argument;

-   Added a method `cancel_removals()` to restore removed points (if
    no point was inserted since then an garbage was not collected);

-   **Breaking change:** unified API of method `add_normal_map()` with
    `add_property_map()`: it now returns a pair of property map + bool
    (that tells if the property was added) instead of just the
    property map;

-   Added a method `properties_and_types()` in addition to
    `properties()`: this new one returns pairs of `std::string` +
    `std::type_info` in order to also know the type of each property.

### CGAL and the Boost Graph Library (BGL)

-   Added function `write_wrl()` for writing into VRML 2.0 format.
-   Added functions `CGAL::write_vtp()` for writing a triangulated
      face graph in a `.vtp` file (XML VTK format).


</div>
